This is Bill Lange. I'm Dave Gallo.	大卫.盖罗：这位是比尔.兰格， 我是大卫.盖罗。
And we're going to tell you some stories from the sea here in video.	我们将用一些影片来讲述一些深海里的故事。
We've got some of the most incredible video of Titanic that's ever been seen, and we're not going to show you any of it.	我们这有不少精彩的泰坦尼克的影片， 可惜您今天看不到。
The truth of the matter is that the Titanic -- even though it's breaking all sorts of box office records -- it's not the most exciting story from the sea.	泰坦尼克号 是拿了不少票房冠军 但事实上它并不是关于海洋的最刺激的故事。
And the problem, I think, is that we take the ocean for granted.	原因在于我们一直没把海洋当回事儿。
When you think about it, the oceans are 75 percent of the planet.	大家想想，海洋占了地球面积的75％。
Most of the planet is ocean water.	地球的大部分都是海水。
The average depth is about two miles.	海洋的平均深度是两英里
Part of the problem, I think, is we stand at the beach, or we see images like this of the ocean, and you look out at this great big blue expanse, and it's shimmering and it's moving and there's waves and there's surf and there's tides, but you have no idea for what lies in there.	当你站在海滩上 或是当你看到海洋里的图像， 当你看着这么一大片蓝色，它泛着光， 不断地变动着，一会儿是海浪，一会儿是波涛， 一会儿又涨潮， 你却不知道它里面到底有些什么。
And in the oceans, there are the longest mountain ranges on the planet.	其实地球上最长的山脉都在海洋里。
Most of the animals are in the oceans.	大部分的动物也都生活在海洋里。
Most of the earthquakes and volcanoes are in the sea, at the bottom of the sea.	大多数地震和火山喷发也都发生在海洋里 在海洋的最底部。
The biodiversity and the biodensity in the ocean is higher, in places, than it is in the rainforests.	海洋里生物的多样性和密度要比 雨林带还高。
It's mostly unexplored, and yet there are beautiful sights like this that captivate us and make us become familiar with it.	这儿基本上都没有被开发过，但是像这些美丽的景色， 它吸引着我们并被我们所熟知。
But when you're standing at the beach, I want you to think that you're standing at the edge of a very unfamiliar world.	但我想告诉你的是，当你站在海边时， 你面对的是一个完全陌生的世界。
We have to have a very special technology to get into that unfamiliar world.	我们得用非常特殊的仪器 才能到达那个陌生的世界。
We use the submarine Alvin and we use cameras, and the cameras are something that Bill Lange has developed with the help of Sony.	我们用的是深海潜水艇Alvin号和摄像机， 摄像机是比尔.兰格和索尼共同研发的。
Marcel Proust said, "The true voyage of discovery is not so much in seeking new landscapes as in having new eyes."	马塞尔.普鲁斯特说过："真正的探索之旅 不是为了新的发现，而是为了找到新的视角。"
People that have partnered with us have given us new eyes, not only on what exists -- the new landscapes at the bottom of the sea -- but also how we think about life on the planet itself.	和我们合作的人们帮我们找到了新的视角， 我们不仅看到了哪些已经存在的 那些深海里的景观， 同时我们也重新认识了生命本身。
Here's a jelly.	这是一只水母。
It's one of my favorites, because it's got all sorts of working parts.	是我最喜欢的，因为它哪都能动。
This turns out to be the longest creature in the oceans.	原来它是海洋中最长的生物。
It gets up to about 150 feet long.	它可以伸展到150英尺长。
But see all those different working things?	看到这些在动的东西了吗？
I love that kind of stuff.	我真喜欢这些东西。
It's got these fishing lures on the bottom. They're going up and down.	底下这些都是鱼饵。它们上上下下的浮动。
It's got tentacles dangling, swirling around like that.	还有这些摇晃着，旋转着的触角。
It's a colonial animal.	这是一种群栖动物。
These are all individual animals banding together to make this one creature.	其实它们都是由单独的动物， 结合在一起就成了这样大的一个生物。
And it's got these jet thrusters up in front that it'll use in a moment, and a little light.	还有前面的这个是推进引擎。 它一会儿会用到它，还有一些光。
If you take all the big fish and schooling fish and all that, put them on one side of the scale, put all the jelly-type of animals on the other side, those guys win hands down.	如果你把所有的鱼类， 放在天平的一端，然后把所有水母状的动物 放在另一端，水母那边要重的多。
Most of the biomass in the ocean is made out of creatures like this.	大多数的海洋生物都是由这类生物。
Here's the X-wing death jelly.	这只是x翼死亡水母。
The bioluminescence -- they use the lights for attracting mates and attracting prey and communicating.	它们用这种生物荧光来吸引伴侣， 食物和交流。
We couldn't begin to show you our archival stuff from the jellies.	我们没办法从我们档案中的水母介绍起。
They come in all different sizes and shapes.	它们大小不同，形状各异。
We tend to forget about the fact that the ocean is miles deep on average, and that we're real familiar with the animals that are in the first 200 or 300 feet, but we're not familiar with what exists from there all the way down to the bottom.	比尔.兰格：我们通常忘了海洋平均有好几英里深， 我们对于 两三百尺深处的动物很了解， 但从那往下就不太知道了。
And these are the types of animals that live in that three-dimensional space, that micro-gravity environment that we really haven't explored.	而像这样的动物 就生活在 我们没有探索过的微重力的三维空间里。
You hear about giant squid and things like that, but some of these animals get up to be approximately 140, 160 feet long.	你一定听说过巨型章鱼之类的东西。 但像这样的动物可以伸张到140到160英尺长。
They're very little understood.	它们还没有被研究透。
This is one of them, another one of our favorites, because it's a little octopod.	大卫：这也是其中之一，是我们另一个最爱，一个小的八爪鱼。
You can actually see through his head.	你真的能看穿它的脑袋。
And here he is, flapping with his ears and very gracefully going up.	它的耳朵在上下摆动，还很优雅地向上游着。
We see those at all depths and even at the greatest depths.	我们能在不同深度，甚至最深处看到这样的动物。
They go from a couple of inches to a couple of feet.	它们有的几英尺长，有的几尺长。
They come right up to the submarine -- they'll put their eyes right up to the window and peek inside the sub.	它们有的会贴近潜水艇－－ 它们的眼睛会贴着潜水艇的窗口向里看。
This is really a world within a world, and we're going to show you two.	这里的世界中还有另一个世界， 我们将给您介绍两个。
In this case, we're passing down through the mid-ocean and we see creatures like this.	像这一个，当我们到达了中海一下就能看见像这样子的物种。
This is kind of like an undersea rooster.	它看起来有点像深海里的公鸡。
This guy, that looks incredibly formal, in a way.	看这个，它看起来真的太正经了。
And then one of my favorites. What a face!	还有这也是我的最爱之一。看这张脸！
This is basically scientific data that you're looking at.	你们看到的这些基本上都是科学数据。
It's footage that we've collected for scientific purposes.	它们都是我们为了科学研究而收集的影片。
And that's one of the things that Bill's been doing, is providing scientists with this first view of animals like this, in the world where they belong.	这个是比尔正在做的， 为了让科学家们看到这些第一手材料 这些在它们生存的环境中获取的。
They don't catch them in a net.	他们不会用鱼网来捕这些生物。
They're actually looking at them down in that world.	他们会在它们的世界中观察它们。
We're going to take a joystick, sit in front of our computer, on the Earth, and press the joystick forward, and fly around the planet.	我们会用一个控制杆， 在地面上我们只用坐在电脑前， 移动控制杆就能环游地球了。
We're going to look at the mid-ocean ridge, a 40,000-mile long mountain range.	现在我们看一个海中央的山脊。 一个40，000英里长的山脉。
The average depth at the top of it is about a mile and a half.	这些山脉顶端的平均深度都有1.5英里。
And we're over the Atlantic -- that's the ridge right there -- but we're going to go across the Caribbean, Central America, and end up against the Pacific, nine degrees north.	我们已走遍了大西洋－－那就是山脊， 现在我们要穿过加勒比海，中美洲， 最后到达太平洋，北纬九度。
We make maps of these mountain ranges with sound, with sonar, and this is one of those mountain ranges.	我们用声纳来制作这些山脊的地图， 这是这些山脊中的一个。
We're coming around a cliff here on the right.	我们现在向右转过一个悬崖。
The height of these mountains on either side of this valley is greater than the Alps in most cases.	这些山脉两侧山谷的高度 大多数都比阿尔卑斯山脉还要高。
And there's tens of thousands of those mountains out there that haven't been mapped yet.	这里还有成千上万的山脉不在地图上。
This is a volcanic ridge.	这是一个火山脊。
We're getting down further and further in scale.	我们现在往更深处走。
And eventually, we can come up with something like this.	最终我们会看到像这样的东西。
This is an icon of our robot, Jason, it's called.	这是最具代表性的一个机器人－他叫杰森。
And you can sit in a room like this, with a joystick and a headset, and drive a robot like that around the bottom of the ocean in real time.	你会坐在这样的一间房间里， 用遥控杆和耳机来这样驾驶机器人 同时机器人在海底行走。
One of the things we're trying to do at Woods Hole with our partners is to bring this virtual world -- this world, this unexplored region -- back to the laboratory.	在伍兹霍尔，我们还希望和我们的合伙人 把这个虚拟的世界－－ 这个未曾背发掘的地带－带回实验室里。
Because we see it in bits and pieces right now.	因为我们现在看到的都是些点滴片断。
We see it either as sound, or we see it as video, or we see it as photographs, or we see it as chemical sensors, but we never have yet put it all together into one interesting picture.	我们获取了一些声音，一些影象， 或是一些图片，或是一些化学成分 －－但我们从没把它们放在一块来看。
Here's where Bill's cameras really do shine.	这里是比尔的相机真正出彩的地方。
This is what's called a hydrothermal vent.	我们叫这个热泉喷出口。
And what you're seeing here is a cloud of densely packed, hydrogen-sulfide-rich water coming out of a volcanic axis on the sea floor.	您现在看到的是一团密度很高的 强硫化氫液体 从海底的火山中轴喷出。
Gets up to 600, 700 degrees F, somewhere in that range.	有时可以达到600到700华氏度。
So that's all water under the sea -- a mile and a half, two miles, three miles down.	这些都是海水中的液体－ 一点五英里，两英里，三英里深。
And we knew it was volcanic back in the '60s, '70s.	六七十年代时我们只知道这是一座火山。
And then we had some hint that these things existed all along the axis of it, because if you've got volcanism, water's going to get down from the sea into cracks in the sea floor, come in contact with magma, and come shooting out hot.	后来我们发现了这些物质 存在于它的轴心周围，因为假如你知道这里有火山运动， 这些液体会流向海底并且进入海床的裂缝， 和岩浆汇合，然后喷出热浪。
We weren't really aware that it would be so rich with sulfides, hydrogen sulfides.	我们真没想到硫化氢的含量会这么高。
We didn't have any idea about these things, which we call chimneys.	我们当初根本不知道这些是什么，我们叫它们烟囱。
This is one of these hydrothermal vents.	这是这些热液出口中的一个。
Six hundred degree F water coming out of the Earth.	300多度的液体从地里涌出。
On either side of us are mountain ranges that are higher than the Alps, so the setting here is very dramatic.	我们两侧的山脊都比阿尔卑斯山高， 所以说这的地形是惊人的。
The white material is a type of bacteria that thrives at 180 degrees C.	比尔：这些白色的物质是一种细菌 它能在180度的高温下生存。
I think that's one of the greatest stories right now that we're seeing from the bottom of the sea, is that the first thing we see coming out of the sea floor after a volcanic eruption is bacteria.	大卫：现在我们要讲一个最不可思议的故事 我们现在看到的是 我们最开始看到的从海底冒出来的 火山喷发后的细菌。
And we started to wonder for a long time, how did it all get down there?	我们开始想 它为什么在那里？
What we find out now is that it's probably coming from inside the Earth.	我们现在知道它可能是来自地球内部。
Not only is it coming out of the Earth -- so, biogenesis made from volcanic activity -- but that bacteria supports these colonies of life.	它不仅从地球里出来－－ 它的生物源来自于火山活动－－ 但这些细菌供养群居在这里的生物。
The pressure here is 4,000 pounds per square inch.	这里的压力是平均每平方英尺4000磅。
A mile and a half from the surface to two miles to three miles -- no sun has ever gotten down here.	离地表一点五英里，两三英里深 没有任何阳光的照射。
All the energy to support these life forms is coming from inside the Earth -- so, chemosynthesis.	支撑所有的生命形式的能量 都来自地球内部－那些化学合成物。
And you can see how dense the population is.	你可以看到这的生物密度是多大。
These are called tube worms.	它们被叫做管道蠕虫。
These worms have no digestive system. They have no mouth.	比尔：这些蠕虫没有消化系统。它们没有嘴。
But they have two types of gill structures.	但它们有两种腮组织。
One for extracting oxygen out of the deep-sea water, another one which houses this chemosynthetic bacteria, which takes the hydrothermal fluid -- that hot water that you saw coming out of the bottom -- and converts that into simple sugars that the tube worm can digest.	一种可以从深海液体中吸收氧气， 另一种吞近这些 靠热液生存的化合细菌 就是这些从海底冒出来的热水－－ 然后再转化成管道蠕虫可以消化的简单糖份。
You can see, here's a crab that lives down there.	大卫：你可以看到－这是一只生活在这里的螃蟹。
He's managed to grab a tip of these worms.	它能钳住蠕虫的一小部分。
Now, they normally retract as soon as a crab touches them.	它们通常一碰到螃蟹就缩回去。
Oh! Good going.	恩！厉害。
So, as soon as a crab touches them, they retract down into their shells, just like your fingernails.	所以，一旦螃蟹碰到它们 它们就缩回壳里，就像指甲。
There's a whole story being played out here that we're just now beginning to have some idea of because of this new camera technology.	这样的故事被一一展开 我们只是开始对它们有些认识 全都靠这个新的摄影技术。
These worms live in a real temperature extreme.	比尔：这些蠕虫都生活在这样极端的温度下。
Their foot is at about 200 degrees C and their head is out at three degrees C, so it's like having your hand in boiling water and your foot in freezing water.	它们的脚有大概200度 它们的头是3度左右， 这就像是你的手放在沸水中而你的脚在冰水里。
That's how they like to live.	它们就是这样生活的。
This is a female of this kind of worm.	大卫：这是一只雌性蠕虫。
And here's a male.	这只是雄性的。
You watch. It doesn't take long before two guys here -- this one and one that will show up over here -- start to fight.	你看着。用不着多久 它们两就会出现在这－开始打斗。
Everything you see is played out in the pitch black of the deep sea.	你所看到的都是在深海最漆黑的地方进行的，
There are never any lights there, except the lights that we bring.	除了我们带来过的光线之外没有任何其他的光线。
Here they go.	看这里。
On one of the last dive series, we counted 200 species in these areas -- 198 were new, new species.	在过去的潜水系列中有一次 我们在这个区域里找到200种物种。 198种都是新的物种。
One of the big problems is that for the biologists working at these sites, it's rather difficult to collect these animals.	比尔：对生物学家来说最大的问题之一 是在这些地点工作，更不用说采集物种。
And they disintegrate on the way up, so the imagery is critical for the science.	因为采集上来它们就会破裂， 所以这些影像对科学来说是至关重要的。
Two octopods at about two miles depth.	大卫：这是两条在两英里深处的章鱼。
This pressure thing really amazes me -- that these animals can exist there at a depth with pressure enough to crush the Titanic like an empty Pepsi can.	这里的压力真的让我很吃惊， 这些动物居然可以在这样的深度生存 这里的压力足够把泰坦尼克号压成一只空百事可乐罐。
What we saw up till now was from the Pacific.	直到现在我们看到的都来自太平洋。
This is from the Atlantic. Even greater depth.	这些是来自大西洋。而且更深。
You can see this shrimp is harassing this poor little guy here, and he'll bat it away with his claw. Whack!	你可以看到这只虾正在骚扰这个可怜的小东西 它会用它的爪子反抗。嗷！
And the same thing's going on over here.	类似的故事一只在发生。
What they're getting at is that -- on the back of this crab -- the foodstuff here is this very strange bacteria that lives on the backs of all these animals.	它们在这只蟹背上能获得的是 这种很奇怪的细菌类的食物 它生长在这些动物的背上。
And what these shrimp are trying to do is actually harvest the bacteria from the backs of these animals.	而这些虾 其实正在这些动物的背上收割细菌。
And the crabs don't like it at all.	这些螃蟹可不喜欢这样。
These long filaments that you see on the back of the crab are actually created by the product of that bacteria.	这些蟹背上的长的细丝 是由这种细菌组成的
So, the bacteria grows hair on the crab.	所以细菌可以在蟹背上长出毛来。
On the back, you see this again.	现在你又看到了同样的在发生。
The red dot is the laser light of the submarine Alvin to give us an idea about how far away we are from the vents.	这个红点是潜水艇Alvin号腹下的镭射灯 能让我们感觉到我们离喷出口有多远。
Those are all shrimp.	这些都是虾。
You see the hot water over here, here and here, coming out.	你可以看到热液从这儿，这儿还有这儿冒出来。
They're clinging to a rock face and actually scraping bacteria off that rock face.	它们会粘在岩石的表面 并从岩石表面把细菌扒下来。
Here's a tiny, little vent that's come out of the side of that pillar.	这里有一个很小的出口在那个很大的柱子上。
Those pillars get up to several stories.	这些柱子可以有几层楼高。
So here, you've got this valley with this incredible alien landscape of pillars and hot springs and volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, inhabited by these very strange animals that live only on chemical energy coming out of the ground.	现在你可以看到这样一个难以置信景色鬼魅的峡谷 这里有在这样的柱子，热泉，火山喷发和地震， 这些奇异的动物就生活在这里 靠地里冒出的化学能量为生。
They don't need the sun at all.	它们毫不需要阳光。
You see this white V-shaped mark on the back of the shrimp?	比尔：你能看到这些虾的背上有v形的记号吗？
It's actually a light-sensing organ.	它们实际上是感光器官。
It's how they find the hydrothermal vents.	它们就是靠它来找到热液出口。
The vents are emitting a black body radiation -- an IR signature -- and so they're able to find these vents at considerable distances.	这些出口发射出一种黑体的辐射－一种红外线－ 所以它们能在很远的距离外找到这些出口
All this stuff is happening along that 40,000-mile long mountain range that we're calling the ribbon of life, because just even today, as we speak, there's life being generated there from volcanic activity.	大卫：所有这些都发生在40000英里长的山脊周围 我们称之为生命带，即使是今天， 此时此刻，生命正诞生于火山活动中。
This is the first time we've ever tried this any place.	这是我们在这里的第一次尝试。
We're going to try to show you high definition from the Pacific.	我们将为您展示高清晰的太平洋画面。
We're moving up one of these pillars.	我们现在沿着根柱子向上走。
This one's several stories tall.	它有好几层楼高。
In it, you'll see that it's a habitat for a lot of different animals.	在这里，你可以看到这是很多种动物的栖息地。
There's a funny kind of hot plate here, with vent water coming out of it.	这有一个滑稽的热盘子状的东西，热液从里面涌出。
So all of these are individual homes for worms.	这些都是蠕虫们单个的家。
Now here's a closer view of that community.	现在可以更近距离地看到这个群体。
Here's crabs here, worms here.	这里有蟹，还有蠕虫。
There are smaller animals crawling around.	这些更小地动物会蜷缩在周围。
Here's pagoda structures.	这是一个塔组织。
I think this is the neatest-looking thing.	我认为这是看上去最精致地一个。
I just can't get over this -- that you've got these little chimneys sitting here smoking away.	我真的太喜欢它了－ 这些小烟囱上冒着烟。
This stuff is toxic as hell, by the way.	对了，这些物质可是带有剧毒的。
You could never get a permit to dump this in the ocean, and it's coming out all from it.	你不能向海里倾倒这些， 但它却从海底自己冒出来。
It's unbelievable. It's basically sulfuric acid, and it's being just dumped out, at incredible rates.	难以置信。这些大致上是硫磺酸， 它们以惊人的速度向外涌。
And animals are thriving -- and we probably came from here.	这些动物在努力地生存－而我们也许就是从这里演变来地。
That's probably where we evolved from.	我们很可能是从这里开始进化。
This bacteria that we've been talking about turns out to be the most simplest form of life found.	比尔：我们刚才说到地细菌 是我们所知道的最简单的生命形式。
There are a number of groups that are proposing that life evolved at these vent sites.	有很多科学小组都认为 生命是从这些热液喷口开始进化的。
Although the vent sites are short-lived -- an individual site may last only 10 years or so -- as an ecosystem they've been stable for millions -- well, billions -- of years.	尽管这些喷口的存在时间很短－－ 大概每个只能延续10年左右－－ 但作为一个生态系统，它们已经很稳定地存在了几百万，甚至几十亿年。
It works too well. You see there're some fish inside here as well.	大卫：它们运作得太好了。你看这里面有很多鱼。
There's a fish sitting here.	这是一个鱼场。
Here's a crab with his claw right at the end of that tube worm, waiting for that worm to stick his head out.	这只螃蟹把它的钳子放在这只管道蠕虫的尾部， 等着这只蠕虫伸出脑袋。
The biologists right now cannot explain why these animals are so active.	比尔：生物学家现在还不能解释 为什么这些动物如此活跃。
The worms are growing inches per week!	这些蠕虫每星期长好几尺！
I already said that this site, from a human perspective, is toxic as hell.	大卫：我已经说过这里的环境， 从人类的角度来说，是很有毒性的。
Not only that, but on top -- the lifeblood -- that plumbing system turns off every year or so.	不仅如此，更重要的是－它的生命源泉－ 这个向喷涌管路的体系－每隔几年就会自动关闭。
Their plumbing system turns off, so the sites have to move.	一旦这些喷涌管路系统关闭，这些生活环境就迁移。
And then there's earthquakes, and then volcanic eruptions, on the order of one every five years, that completely wipes the area out.	而且这里还有地震， 每隔五年就有一次火山喷发 可以把这里的生存环境完全摧毁。
Despite that, these animals grow back in about a year's time.	尽管如此，这些动物还是会在一年以后又长回来。
You're talking about biodensities and biodiversity, again, higher than the rainforest that just springs back to life.	当我们谈到这的生物密度和生物多样性 比热带雨林还高，它这么快就能长回来。
Is it sensitive? Yes.	它是否是很敏感呢？是的。
Is it fragile? No, it's not really very fragile.	是否是很脆弱呢？不是，它一点也不脆弱。
I'll end up with saying one thing.	我在结束前还要说一个故事。
There's a story in the sea, in the waters of the sea, in the sediments and the rocks of the sea floor.	这个故事发生在海里，在海中的热液里， 在海底的沉积物和岩石里。
It's an incredible story.	只是一个难以置信的故事。
What we see when we look back in time, in those sediments and rocks, is a record of Earth history.	当我们找寻过去的时候，我们会看到 这些沉积物和岩石是地球历史的一个纪录。
Everything on this planet -- everything -- works by cycles and rhythms.	这个星球上所有的事物－所有的－都有自己的周期和节奏。
The continents move apart. They come back together.	各个大陆分离后会合拢。
Oceans come and go. Mountains come and go. Glaciers come and go.	海洋消失后又会回来。山脉，冰川都是如此。
El Nino comes and goes. It's not a disaster, it's rhythmic.	厄尔尼诺现象也不断出现。它不是一次灾难，而是自身的节奏。
What we're learning now, it's almost like a symphony.	我们现在所研究的，就像一部交响乐。
It's just like music -- it really is just like music.	就是音乐－真的像音乐。
And what we're learning now is that you can't listen to a five-billion-year long symphony, get to today and say, "Stop! We want tomorrow's note to be the same as it was today."	而我们现在学到的是 你不能听了50亿年长的交响乐，但今天你突然说， "停住！我们希望明天的乐谱和今天的一样。"
It's absurd. It's just absurd.	这就很荒唐。真的很荒唐。
So, what we've got to learn now is to find out where this planet's going at all these different scales and work with it.	所以我们现在需要研究的是地球的将来 在各个层面上会是怎样的。
Learn to manage it.	学习掌握它。
The concept of preservation is futile.	而努力去保存现状则是徒劳的。
Conservation's tougher, but we can probably get there.	而去保护它更难，但我们有可能做到。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
Thank you.	谢谢。
I'm here today to start a revolution.	我今天来这里的目的 是开启一场革命
Now before you get up in arms, or you break into song, or you pick a favorite color, I want to define what I mean by revolution.	不过在你们揭竿而起 纵情歌唱 或是选择幸运色之前 让我先来为"革命"下个定义
By revolution, I mean a drastic and far-reaching change in the way we think and behave -- the way we think and the way we behave.	我所谓的"革命" 是指我们思考和行为上 急剧而深远的变革── 我们思考和行动的方式
Now why, Steve, why do we need a revolution?	也许你会问了：史蒂夫，我们为什么需要一场革命呢？
We need a revolution because things aren't working; they're just not working.	我们需要一场革命 因为事情行不通了；完全行不通了
And that makes me really sad because I'm sick and tired of things not working.	我因此而难过 因为我对行不通的事情感到厌烦
You know, I'm sick and tired of us not living up to our potential.	我受够了看着我们的潜能得不到完全施展
I'm sick and tired of us being last.	我已厌倦我们处于最后一名的窘境
And we are last place in so many things -- for example, social factors.	而我们恰恰在很多事情上都处于最后一名── 比如说，社会的各个方面
We're last place in Europe in innovation.	在"创新"方面，我们在全欧洲倒数第一
There we are right at the end, right at the bottom, last place as a culture that doesn't value innovation.	是的，在最后，在最底部 被视为最不重视创新的民族
We're last place in health care, and that's important for a sense of well-being.	在医疗方面，我们也是最后一名 而医疗又是幸福感的重要保证
And there we are, not just last in the E.U., we're last in Europe, at the very bottom.	我们不仅在欧盟国家中排在最后 在整个欧洲都是垫底
And worst of all, it just came out three weeks ago, many of you have seen it, The Economist.	而最糟糕的是── 你们也许在三个星期前出版的《经济学人》上读到了──
We're the saddest place on Earth, relative to GDP per capita -- the saddest place on Earth.	就人均GDP而言 我们是世界上最悲催的地方 甚至是整个地球上最悲催的地方
That's social. Let's look at education.	这些只是社会层面，我们再来看看教育
Where do we rank three weeks ago in another report by the OECD?	在另一份由经济合作与发展组织三个星期前发表的报告中 我们的排名又是怎样呢？
Last in reading, math and science. Last.	阅读、数学和科学都垫底
Business: The lowest perception in the E.U.	商业方面： 在所有欧盟国家中
that entrepreneurs provide benefits to society.	我们对创业者为社会带来福利最不看好
Why as a result, what happens?	结果呢？
The lowest percentage of entrepreneurs starting businesses.	我们的自主创业百分比垫底
And this is despite the fact that everybody knows that small business is the engine of economies.	而我们都知道 小型企业 才是经济发展的引擎
We hire the most people; we create the most taxes.	我们小型企业提供最多的就业岗位，在税收方面贡献最高
So if our engine's broken, guess what?	如果引擎坏了，结果又会如何呢？
Last in Europe GDP per capita.	在欧洲人均GDP上，我们再度排名最后
Last.	最后一名
So it's no surprise, guys, that 62 percent of Bulgarians are not optimistic about the future.	难怪62%的保加利亚人 都对未来不抱乐观心态
We're unhappy, we have bad education, and we have the worst businesses.	我们生活不幸福，我们的教育质量很差 我们在商业上也一败涂地
And these are facts, guys.	这些都是血淋淋的事实，朋友们
This isn't story tale; it's not make-believe.	这不是凭空捏造的
It's not.	不是的
It's not a conspiracy I have got against Bulgaria. These are facts.	这不是我针对保加利亚的阴谋，这些都是事实
So I think it should be really, really clear that our system is broken.	我认为一切都是显而易见的： 我们的体系已经支离破碎
The way we think, the way we behave, our operating system of behaving is broken.	我们思考、行为的方式 我们的行为操作系统都已支离破碎
We need a drastic change in the way we think and behave to transform Bulgaria for the better, for ourselves, for our friends, for our family and for our future.	我们必须要在思维与行为方式上作出巨大改变 让保加利亚变得更好 为了我们自己，为了我们的朋友 为了我们的家人和未来
How did this happen?	这一切都是怎么发生的呢？
Let's be positive now. We're going to get positive. How did this happen?	我们应该以积极的心态看待问题。这一切都是怎么发生的？
I think we're last because -- and this is going to be drastic to some of you -- because we are handicapping ourselves.	我认为我们处在最后一名的原因在于── 对于你们中的某些人来说，这听起来可能不可思议── 原因在于我们裹住了自己的手脚
We're holding ourselves back because we don't value play.	而我们裹足不前的原因 在于我们不重视玩耍
I said "play," all right.	没错，"玩耍"
In case some of you forgot what play is, this is what play looks like.	如果在座有人已经忘了玩耍为何物，这就是玩耍
Babies play, kids play, adults play.	婴儿玩耍，孩童玩耍 成年人也玩耍
We don't value play.	而我们不重视玩耍
In fact, we devalue play.	事实上，我们摒弃玩耍
And we devalue it in three areas.	我们从三个方面摒弃玩耍
Let's go back to the same three areas.	我们再从这三个方面来看
Social: 45 years of what?	社会：45年的...
Of communism -- of valuing the society and the state over the individual and squashing, inadvertently, creativity, individual self-expression and innovation.	共产主义-- 社会与国家利益高于个人利益 不经意间，创意、 个人思想表达和创新遭到践踏
And instead, what do we value?	相反，我们重视的是什么？
Because it's shown the way we apply, generate and use knowledge is affected by our social and institutional context, which told us what in communism?	显而易见 我们应用知识的方式 受到了社会与结构背景的影响 共产主义要求我们怎么做？
To be serious.	要严肃
To be really, really serious.	非常非常严肃
It did.	就是这样
Be serious.	（众人鼓掌） 严肃
I can't tell you how many times I've been scolded in the park for letting my kids play on the ground.	我都不记得有多少次，我在公园里被人批评 就因为我让自己的孩子在地上玩耍
Heaven forbid they play in the dirt, the kal, or even worse, lokvi, water -- that will kill them.	他们不能在泥（кал，保加利亚语）里玩耍 或在水里玩耍，他们会有生命危险
I have been told by babas and dyados that we shouldn't let our kids play so much because life is serious and we need to train them for the seriousness of life.	一些人告诉我 我们不该老让孩子去玩 生活是严肃的 我们必须训练他们严肃对待生活
We have a serious meme running through.	我们之中蔓延着一种严肃的文化基因
It's a social gene running through us.	这是我们体内的一种社会基因
It's a serious gene.	一种严肃的基因
It's 45 years of it that's created what I call the "baba factor."	在这45年里 它是由被我称为"爸爸因素"的东西生成的
And here's how it works.	（众人笑） （众人鼓掌） 情况是这样的
Step one: woman says, "I want to have a baby. Iskam baby."	第一步：女人说："我想要个孩子。"
Step two: we get the baby. Woohoo!	第二步：我们有了孩子。哦吼！
But then what happens in step three?	那么第三步呢？
I want to go back to work because I need to further my career or I just want to go have coffees.	我想回去工作 我想进一步发展事业，或者我只是想偷闲喝喝咖啡
I'm going to give bebko to baba.	我要把孩子交给他爸爸
But we need to remember that baba's been infected by the serious meme for 45 years.	我们别忘了 爸爸已经受到了严肃文化基因45年的影响
So what happens?	结果呢？
She passes that virus on to baby, and it takes a really, really, really long time -- as the redwood trees -- for that serious meme to get out of our operating system.	她将病毒传染给了孩子 必须经过很长很长很长一段时间--就像红木林-- 这严肃文化基因 才能够完全脱离我们的行为体系
What happens then?	接着呢？
It goes into education where we have an antiquated education system that has little changed for 100 years, that values rote learning, memorization and standardization, and devalues self-expression, self-exploration, questioning, creativity and play.	它进入了教育领域，而我们的教育制度抱残守旧 在一百年时间里几乎没有改变 只注重生搬硬套 死记硬背和墨守陈规 摒弃自我思想表达，探寻自我 批判思维，创意和玩乐
It's a crap system.	这是个狗屎体系
True story: I went looking for a school for my kid.	真实故事：我去为孩子找学校
We went to this prestigious little school and they say they're going to study math 10 times a week and science eight times a week and reading five times a day and all this stuff.	我们去到了这所名声在外的小学校 他们说学生每周要学10堂数学 8堂科学 每天学习5堂阅读，如是如是
And we said, "Well what about play and recess?"	我们问："那么，玩耍和休息的时间呢？"
And they said, "Ha. There won't be a single moment in the schedule."	他们说："哈，一分钟都没有。"
And we said, "He's five."	（众人笑） 我们说："他才五岁啊。"
What a crime. What a crime.	这是造孽啊，造孽啊
And it's a crime that our education system is so serious because education is serious that we're creating mindless, robotic workers to put bolts in pre-drilled holes.	这的确是造孽 我们的教育制度过于严肃 致使我们生产的尽是没有思想的机械工人 把螺丝钉安进事先钻好的孔里
But I'm sorry, the problems of today are not the problems of the Industrial Revolution.	很遗憾，今天的问题 并不是工业革命中的问题
We need adaptability, the ability to learn how to be creative and innovative.	我们需要的是适应能力 也就是学会创造革新的能力
We don't need mechanized workers.	我们不需要机械工人
But no, now our meme goes into work where we don't value play.	但不行啊，我们的文化基因使得我们不重视玩乐
We create robotic workers that we treat like assets, to lever and just throw away.	我们生产机械工人，还把他们当作资产 拿起来再丢弃
What are qualities of a Bulgarian work?	保加利亚人的工作有哪些品质？
Autocratic -- do what I say because I'm the chef.	独断专横-- 我是老大，我说的算
I'm the boss and I know better than you.	我是老板，比你更懂
Untrusting -- you're obviously a criminal, so I'm going to install cameras.	不信任--你明显是个罪犯，我得装几个摄像头了
Controlling -- you're obviously an idiot, so I'm going to make a zillion little processes for you to follow so you don't step out of the box.	（众人笑） 指手画脚-- 你明显是个白痴 我要设计成千上百的小步骤好让你遵守，这样你就不会做错了
So they're restrictive -- don't use your mobile phone, don't use your laptop, don't search the Internet, don't be on I.M.	他们还很严苛--不许用手机 不许用笔记本电脑，不许上网 不许聊QQ
That's somehow unprofessional and bad.	这样太不专业，影响太坏了
And at the end of the day, it's unfulfilling because you're controlled, you're restricted, you're not valued and you're not having any fun.	到头来，这工作一点成就感都没有 你受人摆布，受到限制，还不被看重 你得不到任何乐趣
In social, in education and in our business, don't value play.	不论是在社会上，教育上还是经济上 玩耍都得不到重视
And that's why we're last, because we don't value play.	正因如此，我们才落于人后 因为我们不重视玩耍
And you can say, "That's ridiculous, Steve. What a dumb idea.	你会反驳说："真荒谬，史蒂夫，这想法太不靠谱了。
It can't be because of play.	怎么可能是因为玩耍呢。
Just play, that's a stupid thing."	玩耍，太蠢了。"
We have the serious meme in us.	我们被严肃的文化基因毒害了
Well I'm going to say no.	现在我要对它说不
And I will prove it to you in the next part of the speech -- that play is the catalyst, it is the revolution, that we can use to transform Bulgaria for the better.	我下面就会证明给你们看-- 玩耍就是载体，就是革命 能够为我们所用来把保加利亚变得更美好
Play: our brains are hardwired for play.	玩耍： 我们的大脑 是专为玩耍而设计的
Evolution has selected, over millions and billions of years, for play in animals and in humans.	动物和人类 经过了几百万乃至几十亿年的进化 善于玩耍
And you know what?	你知道吗？
Evolution does a really, really good job of deselecting traits that aren't advantageous to us and selecting traits for competitive advantage.	进化非常有效 将我们不利的身体特征淘汰 而保留了有利于竞争的特征
Nature isn't stupid, and it selected for play.	大自然可不笨，它让进化为玩耍而服务
Throughout the animal kingdom, for example: ants. Ants play.	例如，在动物界中 蚂蚁，善于玩耍
Maybe you didn't know that.	也许你还不知道
But when they're playing, they're learning the social order and dynamics of things.	它们在玩耍时 学习社会秩序和事物的运行
Rats play, but what you might not have known is that rats that play more have bigger brains and they learn tasks better, skills.	老鼠也玩耍，而你们可能不知道 更好玩的老鼠 拥有更大的大脑 它们更善于学习任务 技能
Kittens play. We all know kittens play.	我们都知道猫咪们好玩耍
But what you may not know is that kittens deprived of play are unable to interact socially.	而你们可能不知道 如果不让小猫玩耍 那么它们就无法与其它猫交流
They can still hunt, but they can't be social.	它们仍旧能够捕猎，但却无法互动
Bears play.	熊也玩耍
But what you may not know is that bears that play more survive longer.	而你们可能不知道 更会玩的熊能够活得更久
It's not the bears that learn how to fish better.	活得更久的不是那些善于捕鱼的熊
It's the ones that play more.	而是那些更会玩的熊
And a final really interesting study -- it's been shown, a correlation between play and brain size.	最后，一项非常有趣的研究表明 玩耍与脑子的大小 是有关联的
The more you play, the bigger the brains there are.	玩得越多，脑子越大
Dolphins, pretty big brains, play a lot.	海豚拥有很大的脑子，善于玩耍
But who do you think with the biggest brains are the biggest players?	而你知道 谁的脑子最大，谁才是最大的玩家吗？
Yours truly: humans.	答案是：我们的脑子，我们人类
Kids play, we play -- of every nationality, of every race, of every color, of every religion.	孩子玩耍，我们玩耍-- 每个国家，每个种族 每种肤色，每种宗教
It's a universal thing -- we play.	这是我们的共同点--玩耍
And it's not just kids, it's adults too.	玩耍并不只是儿童的专利，大人们也玩耍
Really cool term: neoteny -- the retention of play and juvenile traits in adults.	非常酷的称谓：童心未泯-- 少年好玩的天性在成年人内心的延续
And who are the biggest neotenists?	谁最童心未泯？
Humans. We play sports.	人类。我们玩运动
We do it for fun, or as Olympians, or as professionals.	为娱乐，或作为奥林匹克运动员，或作为职业选手
We play musical instruments.	我们玩乐器
We dance, we kiss, we sing, we just goof around.	我们跳舞，亲吻，歌唱 我们追逐打闹
We're designed by nature to play from birth to old age.	我们天生就会玩耍 从生到老
We're designed to do that continuously -- to play and play a lot and not stop playing.	我们天生 就喜欢一直玩 不停地玩
It is a huge benefit.	这是很大的优势
Just like there's benefits to animals, there's benefits to humans.	对动物有利 对人类也有利
For example, it's been shown to stimulate neural growth in the amygdala, in the area where it controls emotions.	例如，研究表明 玩耍能够刺激扁桃腺 情绪控制区的神经增长
It's been shown to promote pre-frontal cortex development where a lot of cognition is happening.	玩耍还能够促进前脑皮层的发展 这正是意识形成的区域
As a result, what happens?	那么结果呢？
We develop more emotional maturity if we play more.	我们玩得越多，我们的情绪成熟度就越高
We develop better decision-making ability if we play more.	我们玩得越多 我们的决策能力越强
These guys are facts.	这些都是事实
It's not fiction, it's not story tales, it's not make-believe; it's cold, hard science.	不是小说，童话或瞎掰 这是冷冰冰的科学
These are the benefits to play.	这些是玩耍带来的好处
It is a genetic birthright that we have, like walking or speaking or seeing.	就像行走、说话或睁眼看世界一样 玩耍是我们与生俱来的权利
And if we handicap ourselves with play, we handicap ourselves as if we would with any other birthright that we have.	而如果不让自己玩耍 我们的身体就会像失去了其它与生俱来的权利一样 变得残缺不全
We hold ourselves back.	我们束缚了自己的手脚
Little exercise just for a second: close your eyes and try to imagine a world without play.	做个简短的练习 你们闭上眼睛 试着想象一个没有玩乐的世界
Imagine a world without theater, without the arts, without song, without dancing, without soccer, without football, without laughter.	想象一个没有剧院，没有艺术 没有歌曲，没有舞蹈 没有足球，没有橄榄球 没有笑声的世界
What does this world look like?	这是一个什么样的世界？
It's pretty bleak.	相当惨白
It's pretty glum.	相当悲催
Now imagine your workplace.	现在想象你的工作场所
Is it fun? Is it playful?	那里有趣吗？好玩吗？
Or maybe the workplace of your friends -- here we're forward thinking.	或想象你朋友的工作场所--我们做换位思考
Is it fun? Is it playful?	那里有趣吗？好玩吗？
Or is it crap? Is it autocratic, controlling, restrictive and untrusting and unfulfilling?	还是没意思？机械化，控制欲强 诸多限制，没有信任，没有成就感？
We have this concept that the opposite of play is work.	我们总以为 工作与玩乐是水火不容的
We even feel guilty if we're seen playing at work.	我们甚至会为边工作边玩耍而感到羞愧
"Oh, my colleagues see me laughing. I must not have enough work," or, "Oh, I've got to hide because my boss might see me.	"哦，我的同事看见我在笑。我肯定没好好工作。" 或者，"哦，我必须偷偷摸摸地，免得让老板看见。
He's going to think I'm not working hard."	他会认为我没有卖力工作。"
But I have news for you: our thinking is backwards.	告诉你个消息：我们把这想反了
The opposite of play is not work.	玩乐的反义词 并不是工作
The opposite of play is depression. It's depression.	玩乐的反义词 是压迫，压迫
In fact, play improves our work.	事实上 玩耍能够改善我们的工作
Just like there's benefits for humans and animals, there's benefits for play at work.	玩耍能够给人类与动物带来好处 它同样可以为工作造福
For example, it stimulates creativity.	比如，它能促进创新能力
It increases our openness to change.	让我们更敢于做出改变
It improves our ability to learn.	提高我们的学习能力
It provides a sense of purpose and mastery -- two key motivational things that increase productivity, through play.	让我们更有目标和掌控力-- 这是玩耍 提高生产力的 两个关键动因
So before you start thinking of play as just not serious, play doesn't mean frivolous.	不要急着认为玩耍就是不严肃 玩耍并不意味着不正经
You know, the professional athlete that loves skiing, he's serious about it, but he loves it.	正如，一位职业运动员喜爱滑雪 他的态度是严肃的，但他热爱滑雪
He's having fun, he's in the groove, he's in the flow.	他感到愉快，他玩得酣畅淋漓
A doctor might be serious, but laughter's still a great medicine.	一位医生可能很严肃 但欢笑也是一种灵丹妙药
Our thinking is backwards.	我们都想反了
We shouldn't be feeling guilty.	我们不应该感到羞愧
We should be celebrating play.	我们应为玩耍而欢庆
Quick example from the corporate world.	举一个企业的例子
FedEx, easy motto: people, service, profit.	联邦快递，口号很简练：人，服务，利润
If you treat your people like people, if you treat them great, they're happier, they're fulfilled, they have a sense of mastery and purpose.	如果你人性地对待人，好好对待他们 他们就会更开心，更有成就感，他们做事就更有掌控力和目的性
What happens? They give better service -- not worse, but better.	结果呢？他们提供更优质的服务 不是更差而是更优
And when customers call for service and they're dealing with happy people that can make decisions and are fulfilled, how do the customers feel? They feel great.	当顾客打电话要求服务 和他们打交道的是有主见有成就感的快乐人群 这些顾客的感觉如何？他们感觉棒极了
And what do great customers do, great-feeling customers?	而这些感觉良好的顾客会怎么做呢？
They buy more of your service and they tell more of their friends, which leads to more profit.	他们会购买更多的服务，并向自己的朋友推荐 于是更多利润产生了
People, service, profit.	这就是人，服务，利润
Play increases productivity, not decreases.	玩耍提高了而不是减低了生产力
And you're going to say, "Gee, that can work for FedEx out there in the United States, but it can't work in Bulgaria.	你可能会说： "切，这一套在美国的联邦快递行得通， 这在保加利亚就不灵了。
No way. We're different."	没门。我们不一样。"
It does work in Bulgaria, you guys. Two reasons.	朋友们，这在保加利亚是行得通的。原因有二
One, play is universal.	第一，玩耍是世界通用的
There's nothing weird about Bulgarians that we can't play, besides the serious meme that we have to kick out.	只要摒弃了原有的严肃文化基因 我们保加利亚人玩耍就是无可厚非的
Two, I've tried it. I've tried at Sciant.	第二，我尝试过了。我在Sciant尝试过了
When I got there, we had zero happy customers.	我刚到的时候，我们没有一个开心的顾客
Not one customer would refer us.	没有一个顾客推荐我们
I asked them all.	我一个个都问过了
We had marginal profit -- I did.	而我们有边际利润--我认为有
We had marginal profits, and we had unhappy stakeholders.	我们有边际利润 还有不开心的利益相关方
Through some basic change, change like improving transparency, change like promoting self-direction and collaboration, encouraging collaboration, not autocracy, the things like having a results-focus.	通过一些基本的改变 包括提高透明度 鼓励自主决策 协同合作，鼓励合作 而不是机械化 应注重结果
I don't care when you get in in the morning. I don't care when you leave.	我不管你是不是一大早来上班，也不在乎你什么时候下班
I care that your customer and your team is happy and you're organized with that.	我只关心你的客户和团队是否开心 而你是否为此做好了安排
Why do I care if you get in at nine o'clock?	你是否九点钟来上班与我何干呢？
Basically promoting fun.	要让工作更有意思
Through promoting fun and a great environment, we were able to transform Sciant and, in just three short years -- sounds like a long time, but change is slow -- every customer, from zero to every customer referring us, above average profits for the industry and happy stakeholders.	通过活跃并创造良好气氛 我们在短短三年内 改变了Sciant-- 似乎时间不短，但变革的进行急不得 每一位顾客，从零到所有顾客，都推崇我们 利润超过了行业平均水平 让利益相关方感到开心
And you can say, "Well how do you know they're happy?"	你可能会说："你怎么知道他们开心呢？"
Well we did win, every year that we entered, one of the rankings for best employer for small business.	因为每一年我们都进入了 小型企业最佳雇主排行榜
Independent analysis from anonymous employees on their surveys.	这是由员工在不记名问卷上的 独立分析得出的
It does, and it can, work in Bulgaria.	它在保加利亚是可行的
There's nothing holding us back, except our own mentality about play.	除了我们对玩耍的偏见 没有什么能够阻止我们
So some steps that we can take -- to finish up -- how to make this revolution through play.	作为结尾，我们可以通过几个步骤 通过玩耍来促成这场革命
First of all, you have to believe me.	首先，你们必须相信我
If you don't believe me, well just go home and think about it some more or something.	如果你们不信我 那就请回家后再好好想想
Second of all, if you don't have the feeling of play in you, you need to rediscover play.	第二，如果你没有玩耍的意兴 你需要重新发现玩耍的乐趣
Whatever it was that as a kid you used to enjoy, that you enjoyed only six months ago, but now that you've got that promotion you can't enjoy, because you feel like you have to be serious, rediscover it.	你儿时所享受的快乐 或是你六个月前所享受的快乐 而现在你因为升了职而享受不到 因为你认为自己应该严肃些 重新发现你的玩乐吧
I don't care if it's mountain biking or reading a book or playing a game.	不管是骑山地自行车，阅读或玩游戏
Rediscover that because you're the leaders, the innovation leaders, the thought leaders.	重新发现其中乐趣吧 你就是先锋 是创新的先锋，思想的先锋
You're the ones that have to go back to the office or talk to your friends and ignite the fire of change in the play revolution.	你们要回到办公室 或告诉你们的朋友 为玩耍的革命点燃星星之火
You guys have to, and if you're not feeling it, your colleagues, your employees, aren't going to feel it.	你们必须这么做，如果你 你的同事，员工感觉不到
You've got to go back and say, "Hey, I'm going to trust you."	你就必须回去，说："嘿，我相信你。"
Weird concept: I hired you; I should trust you.	多新鲜啊。我聘用你，我就该相信你
I'm going to let you make decisions. I'm going to empower you, and I'm going to delegate to the lowest level, rather than the top.	我让你做主。我把权力交给你 我要把权力交给最基层而不是最高层的人员
I'm going to encourage constructive criticism.	我要鼓励有建设性的批评
I'm going to let you challenge authority.	我要让你们挑战权威
Because it's by challenging the way things are always done is that we are able to break out of the rut that we're in and create innovative solutions to problems of today.	只有挑战我们一贯做事的方法 我们才能从抱残守旧中解脱出来 才能想出具有创意的办法 解决今天的问题
We're not always right as leaders.	作为领导人，我们不可能总是对的
We're going to eradicate fear.	我们要根除恐惧
Fear is the enemy of play.	恐惧是玩乐的天敌
And we're going to do things like eliminate restrictions.	我们要采取行动 要消除严格限制
You know what, let them use their mobile phone for personal calls -- heaven forbid.	让他们用手机 打私人电话--随他们吧
Let them be on the Internet.	让他们上网
Let them be on instant messengers.	让他们网聊
Let them take long lunches.	让他们吃个长长的午餐
Lunch is like the recess for work.	午餐就是工作的休息时间
It's when you go out in the world and you recharge your brain, you meet your friends, you have a beer, you have some food, you talk, you get some synergy of ideas that maybe you wouldn't have had before.	你可以在午餐时出去走走 给大脑充电，与友人相约 来瓶啤酒，点几道小菜，谈笑风生 交流一下想法 你可能会获得之前没有过的点子
Let them do it. Give them some freedom, and in general, let them play. Let them have fun at the workplace.	放手让他们去做。给他们一些自由 总的说，就是让他们去玩。让他们在职场上玩乐
We spend so much of our lives at the workplace, and it's supposed to be, what, a miserable grind, so that 20 years from now, we wake up and say, "Is this it?	我们在职场上投入了那么多时间 工作应该是，啥，一件苦差事？ 二十年就这么过去了，你一睁眼，说："就这样啦？
Is that all there was?"	就这么完了？"
Unacceptable. Nepriemliv.	没门
So in summary, we need a drastic change in the way we think and behave, but we don't need a workers' revolution.	（众人笑） 总而言之 我们需要作出巨大的变革 改变我们思考和行动的方式 我们不需要 工人的革命
We don't need a workers' revolution.	我们不需要工人革命
What we need is a players' uprising.	我们需要的是 玩家的崛起
What we need is a players' uprising.	我们需要的是玩家的崛起
What we need is a players' uprising.	我们需要的是玩家的崛起
Seriously, we need to band together.	说真的，我们必须团结一致
Today is the start of the uprising.	今天就是崛起之日
But what you need to do is fan the flames of the revolution.	我们需要做的是 煽起革命之火
You need to go and share your ideas and your success stories of what worked about reinvigorating our lives, our schools, and our work with play; about how play promotes a sense of promise and self-fulfillment; of how play promotes innovation and productivity, and, ultimately, how play creates meaning.	你们要将想法和成功的故事 四处奔走相告 如何重塑我们的生活，我们的学校 如何将工作与玩乐相结合 玩乐如何促成 目的性和成就感 玩乐如何推动创新和生产力； 最重要的是，玩乐如何让一切变得有意义
Because we can't do it alone. We have to do it together, and together, if we do this and share these ideas on play, we can transform Bulgaria for the better.	孤掌难鸣，我们必须协同合作 如果我们携手并肩，将关于玩耍的思想传播开来 我们就能把保加利亚变得更加美好
Thank you.	感谢大家
	（众人鼓掌）
Radical openness is still a distant future in the field of school education.	学校教育的全方位开放 目前还是一件可望而不可及的事。
We have such a hard time figuring out that learning is not a place but an activity.	我们历尽艰辛才弄明白 学习不是一个在哪学的问题，而是一项活动。
But I want to tell you the story of PISA, OECD's test to measure the knowledge and skills of 15-year-olds around the world, and it's really a story of how international comparisons have globalized the field of education that we usually treat as an affair of domestic policy.	以下我要给大家介绍一下PISA（国际学生评估方案）， 这个方案是OECD用来测量世界上 15岁孩子们知识和技能的测试方案， 这一测试方案向我们展示了国与国之间的教育比较 是如何把原本是一国内政事务的教育领域 全球化的。
Look at how the world looked in the 1960s, in terms of the proportion of people who had completed high school.	我们先从高中毕业生的比例这一标的 来看看20世纪60年代世界各国的教育 是什么样子的。
You can see the United States ahead of everyone else, and much of the economic success of the United States draws on its long-standing advantage as the first mover in education.	我们可以看到，美国遥遥领先排在首位， 而美国所取得的经济成就在很大程度上 得益于其长期 作为教育先行者的教育强国地位。
But in the 1970s, some countries caught up.	到了70年代，有些国家赶上来了，
In the 1980s, the global expansion of the talent pool continued.	到80年代，全球性的 人才扩展持续。
And the world didn't stop in the 1990s.	90年代，世界各国教育的发展并没停步。
So in the '60s, the U.S. was first.	所以，在60年代，美国教育排第一。
In the '90s, it was 13th, and not because standards had fallen, but because they had risen so much faster elsewhere.	到90年代，其排名第13位， 其排名的下降，不是因为其本身的教育水准降低了， 而是因为别国的教育水平大大提高了。
Korea shows you what's possible in education.	韩国教育的经验向我们展示了教育的无限可能性。
Two generations ago, Korea had the standard of living of Afghanistan today, and was one of the lowest education performers.	两代人以前，韩国的生活水平 跟今天的阿富汗一样 其教育水平也是全球表现最差国之一。
Today, every young Korean finishes high school.	而今天，韩国普及了高中教育。
So this tells us that, in a global economy, it is no longer national improvement that's the benchmark for success, but the best performing education systems internationally.	这告诉我们，在全球经济中， 衡量一国教育成功的基准不再只局限于本国的进步， 而是要将其放到国际上最好的教育系统中去进行比对才有意义。
The trouble is that measuring how much time people spend in school or what degree they have got is not always a good way of seeing what they can actually do.	可问题是 测量一个人在学校花的时间的多少 或者他们取得什么样的学位 并不能判断其实际工作能力。
Look at the toxic mix of unemployed graduates on our streets, while employers say they cannot find the people with the skills they need.	目前的情况是，大街上到处都是失业的毕业生 而雇主却说他们招不到 他们所需要的专业技术人材。
And that tells you that better degrees don't automatically translate into better skills and better jobs and better lives.	这说明拥有好的学位并不等于会拥有相应的 好技能、好工作和美好生活。
So with PISA, we try to change this by measuring the knowledge and skills of people directly.	所以我们想运用PISA方法， 直接测量人们的知识和技能 以此来改变这种现象。
And we took a very special angle to this.	我们对此采取了一个非常特殊的视角。
We were less interested in whether students can simply reproduce what they have learned in school, but we wanted to test whether they can extrapolate from what they know and apply their knowledge in novel situations.	我们对学生是否能简单地 复制他们在学校里学到的知识不很感兴趣， 我们想测试的是他们能否运用 他们已学的知识来进行推理 并将新知识运用到解决末知领域的问题中去。
Now, some people have criticized us for this.	可有人因此批评我们。
They say, you know, such a way of measuring outcomes is terribly unfair to people, because we test students with problems they haven't seen before.	他们说，这种测量得出的结果 对人们是非常不公平的，因为我们用 学生们以前没见过的问题来测试他们。
But if you take that logic, you know, you should consider life unfair, because the test of truth in life is not whether we can remember what we learned in school, but whether we are prepared for change, whether we are prepared for jobs that haven't been created, to use technologies that haven't been invented, to solve problems we just can't anticipate today.	但是，如果按这种逻辑 你会认为，人生十分的不公平， 对生活的真理的检验，不在于我们是否能记住了多少 我们在学校里学的东西， 而在于我们是否作好了随时应变的准备、 在于我们是否已经作好了从事那些 需要使用还没有发明的技术 去解决我们今天还没无预料的问题的新工作岗位的准备。
And once hotly contested, our way of measuring outcomes has actually quickly become the standard.	经过激烈的争议， 我们测量的结果却很快成为公认的标准。
In our latest assessment in 2009, we measured 74 school systems that together cover 87 percent of the economy.	在2009的最新评估中， 我们测评了74个学校系统， 这些被测国的经济总量占全球经济总量的87%。
This chart shows you the performance of countries.	这个图展示了这些国家的表现。
In red, sort of below OECD average.	红色表示稍低于OECD的平均值。
Yellow is so-so, and in green are the countries doing really well.	黄色代表一般般，绿色的国家做的很好。
You can see Shanghai, Korea, Singapore in Asia; Finland in Europe; Canada in North America doing really well.	你可以看到，亚洲的上海，南韩，新加坡； 欧洲的芬兰； 和北美的加拿大都做的很好。
You can also see that there is a gap of almost three and a half school years between 15-year-olds in Shanghai and 15-year-olds in Chile, and the gap grows to seven school years when you include the countries with really poor performance.	从表中明显一个巨大的差距在于： 在受教育程度方面， 在15岁年龄阶层，上海的孩子比和智利孩子平均多受了3年半的教育, 如果算上其它教育更落后的国家， 这个差距将达到7个学年。
There's a world of difference in the way in which young people are prepared for today's economy.	现在的年青人 对现代经济所做的准备也存在着巨大的差异。
But I want to introduce a second important dimension into this picture.	我想在这讲一下我们评估的 第二个重要依据。
Educators like to talk about equity.	教育家们喜欢讨论公平。
With PISA, we wanted to measure how they actually deliver equity, in terms of ensuring that people from different social backgrounds have equal chances.	我们就用PISA来测试他们是如何做到教育公平， 也就是如何确保学生 无论其来自哪种不同的社会背景都有均等的受教育机会。
And we see that in some countries, the impact of social background on learning outcomes is very, very strong.	我们看到在有些国家， 学生的社会背景对其受教育机会的影响 非常巨大。
Opportunities are unequally distributed.	由于受教育机会的不均等。
A lot of potential of young children is wasted.	很多小孩子的潜能没有得到开发而被埋没了。
We see in other countries that it matters much less into which social context you're born.	在其他一些国家，学生的社会背景 对其受教育的机会没有太大的影响。
We all want to be there, in the upper right quadrant, where performance is strong and learning opportunities are equally distributed.	很多国家都想挤进右上象限里去， 因为一象限代表着这些国家的教育业绩很好，学习机会分配均等。
Nobody, and no country, can afford to be there, where performance is poor and there are large social disparities.	在教育落后地区， 没有任何个人和国家能进入优良教育象限， 这造成了社会教育的巨大不公平。
And then we can debate, you know, is it better to be there, where performance is strong at the price of large disparities?	这样我们就能辩论， 我们是应该为了一国的教育成就 而牺牲学生受教育的公平机会？
Or do we want to focus on equity and accept mediocrity?	还是我们要注重教育的公平性而接受平庸呢？
But actually, if you look at how countries come out on this picture, you see there are a lot of countries that actually are combining excellence with equity.	事实上，看一看这张图上出现的国家的教育成就， 可以看到很多国家实际上 做到了优秀和平等的统一。
In fact, one of the most important lessons from this comparison is that you don't have to compromise equity to achieve excellence.	事实上，从这个比较得到的最重要的教训之一 就是你不必为了达到优秀 而向平等妥协。
These countries have moved on from providing excellence for just some to providing excellence for all, a very important lesson.	这些国家已经走出了由为部分人提供优质教育 到为所有人提供优质教育的发展之路， 这是个很重要的教训。
And that also challenges the paradigms of many school systems that believe they are mainly there to sort people.	这也挑战了很多学校体系 一贯主张的"教育的功能就是要将人分为三六九等"的思维模式.
And ever since those results came out, policymakers, educators, researchers from around the world have tried to figure out what's behind the success of those systems.	自从这些结果出现后， 来自世界各地的决策者，教育家，研究人员 都在试图搞清楚 这些教育系统成功的背后是什么。
But let's step back for a moment and focus on the countries that actually started PISA, and I'm giving them a colored bubble now.	让我们先回顾一下 关注实际开始了PISA的这些国家， 我用彩色的泡泡来表示这些国家。
And I'm making the size of the bubble proportional to the amount of money that countries spent on students.	我用不同的大小 比例 来表示这些国家花在学生身上的钱。
If money would tell you everything about the quality of learning outcomes, you would find all the large bubbles at the top, no?	如果教育投入的钱能够解释 学生学习的质量， 那照理在上面的那些国家的泡泡应该都很大才对，不是吗？
But that's not what you see.	但你看到的却不是。
Spending per student only explains about, well, less than 20 percent of the performance variation among countries, and Luxembourg, for example, the most expensive system, doesn't do particularly well.	生均教育经费投入 对一个国家教育质量的影响 大约不足20%， 例如，卢森堡是教育投入是最高的， 但其教育效果并不太好。
What you see is that two countries with similar spending achieve very different results.	我们看到的是，两个经费投入相似的国家 可以取得完全不同的成就。
You also see -- and I think that's one of the most encouraging findings -- that we no longer live in a world that is neatly divided between rich and well-educated countries, and poor and badly-educated ones, a very, very important lesson.	你也看到--我认为也是最鼓舞人的发现之一-- 我们居住的世界不是很一刀切地划分成 富有和教育程度高的国家， 与贫穷和教育程度很差的国家， 这是个很重要的教训。
Let's look at this in greater detail.	让我们看一些细节。
The red dot shows you spending per student relative to a country's wealth.	这个红点表示 生均教育经费投入与一国财富的关系。
One way you can spend money is by paying teachers well, and you can see Korea investing a lot in attracting the best people into the teaching profession.	一种投放方法是提高老师工资， 韩国在这方面投入大量资金 来吸引好的优秀的人才加入教育行列。
And Korea also invests into long school days, which drives up costs further.	同时，韩国延长了学校时间， 此举进一步拉高教育投入。
Last but not least, Koreans want their teachers not only to teach but also to develop.	最后，韩国要求他们的老师 不但要教好书，还要做好个人的职业发展。
They invest in professional development and collaboration and many other things.	他们在教师的职业发展与协作 和其它很多方面投入资金。
All that costs money.	所有这些都得花钱。
How can Korea afford all of this?	韩国怎么付得起呢？
The answer is, students in Korea learn in large classes.	答案是，韩国学校实行大班额教学。
This is the blue bar which is driving costs down.	从这根蓝棒可以看出，此举大大降低了办学费用。
You go to the next country on the list, Luxembourg, and you can see the red dot is exactly where it is for Korea, so Luxembourg spends the same per student as Korea does.	看下一个国家，卢森堡 这个红点的位置和代表韩国的红点位置差不多， 所以，卢森堡和韩国的生均教育经费是一样的。
But, you know, parents and teachers and policymakers in Luxembourg all like small classes.	但你看，卢森堡的家长、老师甚至决策者们 都喜欢小班教学。
You know, it's very pleasant to walk into a small class.	走进小课堂时很令人愉快。
So they have invested all their money into there, and the blue bar, class size, is driving costs up.	所以他们把钱花在那里了， 从这根蓝棒可以看出，小班教学使办学经费大幅增加。
But even Luxembourg can spend its money only once, and the price for this is that teachers are not paid particularly well.	但就算是卢森堡这样的国家，其教育经费的投入也只能是一次性的， 而这种投入模式的代价是： 老师的收入不太好。
Students don't have long hours of learning.	学生在校学习时间不长。
And basically, teachers have little time to do anything else than teaching.	基本上，老师除了教学没时间做别的。
So you can see two countries spent their money very differently, and actually how they spent their money matters a lot more than how much they invest in education.	所以你看到两个国家花钱不同， 实际上他们如何花钱的影响 远远超过他们在教育上投入的金额。
Let's go back to the year 2000.	我们来看看2000年。
Remember, that was the year before the iPod was invented.	还记得吧？那是在iPod发明之前的一年。
This is how the world looked then in terms of PISA performance.	如果用其PISA的表现来看， 当时各国的教育是这个样子的。
The first thing you can see is that the bubbles were a lot smaller, no?	这些泡泡当时还很小，不是吗？
We spent a lot less on education, about 35 percent less on education.	我们在教育方面的投入也少得多， 只占不到35%。
So you ask yourself, if education has become so much more expensive, has it become so much better?	扪心自问，既然教育都变得如此昂贵了， 它变得更好了吗？
And the bitter truth really is that, you know, not in many countries.	一个严酷的事实是， 并没有很多国家取得相应的成就。
But there are some countries which have seen impressive improvements.	但是有一些国家 已经取得了可喜的改善。
Germany, my own country, in the year 2000, featured in the lower quadrant, below average performance, large social disparities.	2000年我的祖国---德国 被划在较低的象限里， 比平均表现还低，社会差距很大。
And remember, Germany, we used to be one of those countries that comes out very well when you just count people who have degrees.	别忘了，若只按拥有学位的人数来算， 德国曾是教育强国之一。
Very disappointing results.	现在的结果却令人失望。
People were stunned by the results.	测评结果也令人吃惊。
And for the very first time, the public debate in Germany was dominated for months by education, not tax, not other kinds of issues, but education was the center of the public debate.	几个月以来，教育而不是税务和其他的话题， 成了德国公开辩论的热门话题 这是史无前例的。 教育成了公共辩论的中心话题。
And then policymakers began to respond to this.	接着决策者开始有了回应。
The federal government dramatically raised its investment in education.	联邦政府大幅度提高教育投入。
A lot was done to increase the life chances of students with an immigrant background or from social disadvantage.	做了很多有利于 有移民或不良社会背景学生的事情。
And what's really interesting is that this wasn't just about optimizing existing policies, but data transformed some of the beliefs and paradigms underlying German education.	更有意思的是，这不仅 优化了现有政策， 还改变了德国教育的 一些信仰和规范。
For example, traditionally, the education of the very young children was seen as the business of families, and you would have cases where women were seen as neglecting their family responsibilities when they sent their children to kindergarten.	譬如，传统上，幼儿教育 被视作家庭的事，很多时候 当妇女把孩子送去幼儿园 被视为疏忽职守。
PISA has transformed that debate, and pushed early childhood education right at the center of public policy in Germany.	PISA改变了这场争论， 促使德国把儿童早期教育纳入了 公共政策的中心。
Or traditionally, the German education divides children at the age of 10, very young children, between those deemed to pursue careers of knowledge workers and those who would end up working for the knowledge workers, and that mainly along socioeconomic lines, and that paradigm is being challenged now too.	传统上，德国教育 在孩子10岁时，非常年幼的时候，就划分成 从事知识职业的工作者 和为知识工作者工作的两大群体， 这基本上与社会经济分工一致， 这个范例现在也在受挑战。
A lot of change.	很多的改变。
And the good news is, nine years later, you can see improvements in quality and equity.	有个好消息是，九年后， 你会看到教学质量和公平性的改进。
People have taken up the challenge, done something about it.	人们已经接受了挑战并采取了一些措施。
Or take Korea, at the other end of the spectrum.	看这个范围的另一头韩国
In the year 2000, Korea did already very well, but the Koreans were concerned that only a small share of their students achieved the really high levels of excellence.	在2000年，韩国已经很好了， 但韩国人担心 只有一小部分学生达到了很优秀的水平。
They took up the challenge, and Korea was able to double the proportion of students achieving excellence in one decade in the field of reading.	他们接受了挑战， 在十年间，韩国能将 阅读能力优秀学生的比例提高了一倍。
Well, if you only focus on your brightest students, you know what happens is disparities grow, and you can see this bubble moving slightly to the other direction, but still, an impressive improvement.	如果你只是专注于最出色的学生， 差距就会产生， 这个泡泡稍微往右偏移， 但还是有令人印象深刻的改进。
A major overhaul of Poland's education helped to dramatically reduce between variability among schools, turn around many of the lowest-performing schools, and raise performance by over half a school year.	波兰教育的主要革新 在于大幅度减少学校间的差异， 使很多表现不佳的学校得到重生， 并在半年时间内就提高了教学业绩。
And you can see other countries as well.	其他一些国家也一样。
Portugal was able to consolidate its fragmented school system, raise quality and improve equity, and so did Hungary.	葡萄牙是能够巩固其分散的学校系统， 提高质量和改善公平性， 另外，匈牙利也做到了。
So what you can actually see, there's been a lot of change.	所以确实能看到，很多的改变。
And even those people who complain and say that the relative standing of countries on something like PISA is just an artifact of culture, of economic factors, of social issues, of homogeneity of societies, and so on, these people must now concede that education improvement is possible.	即使那些抱怨的人说 那些相对有名次的国家 PISA只是文化的产物， 经济因素和社会的产物， 以及社会一致化的产物，等等， 这些人现在必须承认教育改良是可能。
You know, Poland hasn't changed its culture.	波兰并没有改变它的文化。
It didn't change its economy. It didn't change the compositions of its population.	没有改变它的经济， 没有改变人口的组成。
It didn't fire its teachers. It changed its education policies and practice. Very impressive.	没有解雇老师。它改变了教育政策 和实践。却非常引人注目。
And all that raises, of course, the question: What can we learn from those countries in the green quadrant who have achieved high levels of equity, high levels of performance, and raised outcomes?	所有这些给我们带来了新的命题： 我们能从这些在绿色象限的国家学到什么？ 谁做到了真正的公平? 谁取得了高水平的业绩和提高了成果？
And, of course, the question is, can what works in one context provide a model elsewhere?	当然，问题是，在一个环境下有效的 在别的地方能用做典范吗？
Of course, you can't copy and paste education systems wholesale, but these comparisons have identified a range of factors that high-performing systems share.	很显然，你不能把一国的教育体系生搬硬套到别国去， 但这些比较也确实帮我们找出了 所有高效能的教育系统的共性因素。
Everybody agrees that education is important.	人人都同意教育很重要。
Everybody says that.	人人都这样说。
But the test of truth is, how do you weigh that priority against other priorities?	但问题是，你如何做到， "两害相权取其轻，两利相权取其重"呢？
How do countries pay their teachers relative to other highly skilled workers?	各国应如何支付他们的教师工资 和其他高级技术工人的工资呢？
Would you want your child to become a teacher rather than a lawyer?	你想让你的孩子成为老师 而不是律师吗？
How do the media talk about schools and teachers?	媒体应该如何报道学校和老师呢？
Those are the critical questions, and what we have learned from PISA is that, in high-performing education systems, the leaders have convinced their citizens to make choices that value education, their future, more than consumption today.	这些都是关键问题。而我们从PISA看到: 在高性能的教育体系里， 领袖们已经说服市民 重视教育，重视个人前途， 而不应该只着眼当前的消费。
And you know what's interesting? You won't believe it, but there are countries in which the most attractive place to be is not the shopping center but the school.	在这过程中有一些很有趣的事。说出来令人难以相信， 在很多国家，最吸引人的地方 不是购物中心而是学校。
Those things really exist.	而事实确实如此。
But placing a high value on education is just part of the picture.	高度重视教育 只是其中的一方面。
The other part is the belief that all children are capable of success.	另一方面，这是基于一种信念： 所有的孩子都有能力成功。
You have some countries where students are segregated early in their ages.	有些国家 学生们很年幼时就被实施分层教学。
You know, students are divided up, reflecting the belief that only some children can achieve world-class standards.	学生们被分开， 这反映了他们的信念： 只有部分小子能达到世界一流的学业水准。
But usually that is linked to very strong social disparities.	但通常是有很强的社会不公有关系。
If you go to Japan in Asia, or Finland in Europe, parents and teachers in those countries expect every student to succeed, and you can see that actually mirrored in student behavior.	如果你去亚洲的日本，或欧洲的芬兰， 这些国家的父母和老师们 期待每个学生都成功， 你会看到这些都会在学生的行为上表现出来。
When we asked students what counts for success in mathematics, students in North America would typically tell us, you know, it's all about talent.	当我们问学生 在数学上什么算是成功 北美的学生一般会告诉我们， 就是天分啦。
If I'm not born as a genius in math, I'd better study something else.	如果我生来就不是数学天才，我最好去学别的。
Nine out of 10 Japanese students say that it depends on my own investment, on my own effort, and that tells you a lot about the system that is around them.	10个中有9个日本学生会说 这要看我的付出和努力， 这些都反映了他们所在的教育系统的理念。
In the past, different students were taught in similar ways.	过去，不同的学生受教方法相似。
High performers on PISA embrace diversity with differentiated pedagogical practices.	PISA中的业绩突出者 用有因材施教的方法来接纳多元性。
They realize that ordinary students have extraordinary talents, and they personalize learning opportunities.	他们意识到 普通的学生也有杰出的天分， 他们把学习机会个性化。
High-performing systems also share clear and ambitious standards across the entire spectrum.	高性能系统也普遍认同 整个范围中的明确和有抱负的标准。
Every student knows what matters.	学生们都知道什么重要。
Every student knows what's required to be successful.	学生们都知道成功需要什么。
And nowhere does the quality of an education system exceed the quality of its teachers.	没有一个地方教育系统的质量 超过老师的质量。
High-performing systems are very careful in how they recruit and select their teachers and how they train them.	高性能的系统很小心地 招聘和选择老师 并培训他们。
They watch how they improve the performances of teachers in difficulties who are struggling, and how they structure teacher pay.	他们留意如何帮助那些 在困境中挣扎的老师提高教学效率， 和如何去核定老师的工资。
They provide an environment also in which teachers work together to frame good practice.	他们提供一个老师们能团结工作的环境 去构架好的做法。
And they provide intelligent pathways for teachers to grow in their careers.	他们为老师提供各种途径 促进教师的职业成长。
In bureaucratic school systems, teachers are often left alone in classrooms with a lot of prescription on what they should be teaching.	在官僚的学校体系中， 老师常常被孤零零留在教室里照本宣科 因为教师们被很多的法规束缚着教与不教什么。
High-performing systems are very clear what good performance is.	高效能的系统很清楚什么样的表现是好的。
They set very ambitious standards, but then they enable their teachers to figure out, what do I need to teach to my students today?	他们设定雄心勃勃的标准， 但他们能让老师们去想办法弄清楚， 我今天需要给我的学生教什么。
The past was about delivered wisdom in education.	过去教育是传递知识和智慧的桥梁。
Now the challenge is to enable user-generated wisdom.	而现在挑战在于让学生自己学习其所需的智慧。
High performers have moved on from professional or from administrative forms of accountability and control -- sort of, how do you check whether people do what they're supposed to do in education -- to professional forms of work organization.	高效率的执行者已经从职业或责任控制的管理者 转变成了专业的工作机构。 就好像，你如何检测 人们是否做了他们应该做的事
They enable their teachers to make innovations in pedagogy.	他们鼓励老师们在教学中勇于创新。
They provide them with the kind of development they need to develop stronger pedagogical practices.	他们为老师提供其所需的发展机会 去制定更有力的教学方式。
The goal of the past was standardization and compliance.	以往的目标是标准化和服从。
High-performing systems have made teachers and school principals inventive.	高效率的体系让老师 和校长们富有独创性。
In the past, the policy focus was on outcomes, on provision.	以前，政策专注于结果， 专注于条规。
The high-performing systems have helped teachers and school principals to look outwards to the next teacher, the next school around their lives.	高效率的体系帮助老师和 校长们放眼于他们人生中的下一个老师， 下一个学校。
And the most impressive outcomes of world-class systems is that they achieve high performance across the entire system.	世界级系统的最令人印象深刻的结果是 他们在整个系统中实现了高性能。
You've seen Finland doing so well on PISA, but what makes Finland so impressive is that only five percent of the performance variation amongst students lies between schools.	你以看到芬兰在PISA中做的挺好， 但芬兰给人留下深刻印象的是 只有5%的学生的表现 在这些学校当中有变化。
Every school succeeds.	每个学校都成功。
This is where success is systemic.	成功的是系统性。
And how do they do that?	怎么做到呢？
They invest resources where they can make the most difference.	他们给能产生最大不同的资源投资。
They attract the strongest principals into the toughest schools, and the most talented teachers into the most challenging classroom.	他们吸引最强的校长放到最难的学校， 最有才华的老师 放进最有挑战的教室。
Last but not least, those countries align policies across all areas of public policy.	最后，这些国家调节 所有地区的公共政策
They make them coherent over sustained periods of time, and they ensure that what they do is consistently implemented.	他们使之持续连贯， 确保始终如一地执行。
Now, knowing what successful systems are doing doesn't yet tell us how to improve.	知道了成功的系统怎么做的 并没有告诉我们如何改进。
That's also clear, and that's where some of the limits of international comparisons of PISA are.	也很清楚，这就是PISA国际比较 的一些极限。
That's where other forms of research need to kick in, and that's also why PISA doesn't venture into telling countries what they should be doing.	也是其他形式的研究需要介入， 也是为什么PISA不冒险介入 告诉这些国家它们应该做什么。
But its strength lies in telling them what everybody else has been doing.	但PISA的长处在于告诉他们 别人都做了些什么。
And the example of PISA shows that data can be more powerful than administrative control of financial subsidy through which we usually run education systems.	PISA的例子显示 数据比我们常用的通过运行教育系统 行政管理财务补贴更有威力。
You know, some people argue that changing educational administration is like moving graveyards.	有人会提出 改变教育行政管理 就像移动墓地。
You just can't rely on the people out there to help you with this.	你不能靠在外面的人来帮助。
But PISA has shown what's possible in education.	PISA已经显示了什么在教育上是可能的。
It has helped countries to see that improvement is possible.	它帮助很多国家看到了改进是可行的。
It has taken away excuses from those who are complacent.	它排除了那些自满者的借口。
And it has helped countries to set meaningful targets in terms of measurable goals achieved by the world's leaders.	它帮助一些国家设定了有意义的目标 也就是被世界领袖们达到了的可测量的目标。
If we can help every child, every teacher, every school, every principal, every parent see what improvement is possible, that only the sky is the limit to education improvement, we have laid the foundations for better policies and better lives.	如果我们能够帮助每个孩子，每个老师，每间学校， 每个校长，每个家长看到改进是可能的， 教育改进的空间是无限的， 我们已经打下了基础 为了更好的政策和更好的人生。
Thank you.	谢谢大家！
I'd like to talk to you today about the scale of the scientific effort that goes into making the headlines you see in the paper.	今天我想跟大家说说 有关于报纸头条新闻背后的 科学家们所付出的努力
Headlines that look like this when they have to do with climate change, and headlines that look like this when they have to do with air quality or smog.	事关气候变化时，报纸头版是这样的 这个是关于空气质量和烟雾的头条
They are both two branches of the same field of atmospheric science.	它们是大气科学的两个分支
Recently the headlines looked like this when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, or IPCC, put out their report on the state of understanding of the atmospheric system.	这是最近的报纸头条， 当时，联合国政府间气候变化专门委员会，即IPCC 发布了一份针对理解大气系统形势的报告
That report was written by 620 scientists from 40 countries.	这份报告由来自40个国家的 共620名科学家撰写
They wrote almost a thousand pages on the topic.	在这个主题上，他们倾注了近一千页的努力
And all of those pages were reviewed by another 400-plus scientists and reviewers, from 113 countries.	同时，来自113个国家的400多位科学家 和观察员审读了整份报告
It's a big community. It's such a big community, in fact, that our annual gathering is the largest scientific meeting in the world.	这是一个很大的群体， 事实上，我们年会是全球物理学界最大的会议
Over 15,000 scientists go to San Francisco every year for that.	每年开会时，逾15000名科学家云集洛杉矶
And every one of those scientists is in a research group, and every research group studies a wide variety of topics.	他们中的每一个都代表着一个研究小组 以及每个小组的大量研究课题
For us at Cambridge, it's as varied as the El Niño oscillation, which affects weather and climate, to the assimilation of satellite data, to emissions from crops that produce biofuels, which is what I happen to study.	在剑桥，我们的研究方向各式各样 有影响天气和气候的厄尔尼诺现象 有卫星数据同化 还有生产生物燃料的农作物的排放，这也是我正好在研究的
And in each one of these research areas, of which there are even more, there are PhD students, like me, and we study incredibly narrow topics, things as narrow as a few processes or a few molecules.	在每一个研究领域里，当然远不止这些 都有像我这样的博士生 我们都在研究非常狭窄的课题 窄到只是寥寥几个反应或者几个分子
And one of the molecules I study is called isoprene, which is here. It's a small organic molecule. You've probably never heard of it.	我正在研究其中一种叫异戊二烯的分子 大家看，是种小有机分子，你们可能从未听过
The weight of a paper clip is approximately equal to 900 zeta-illion -- 10 to the 21st -- molecules of isoprene.	一个回形针的质量大约等同于 10的21次方个异戊二烯分子
But despite its very small weight, enough of it is emitted into the atmosphere every year to equal the weight of all the people on the planet.	尽管这种分子很轻 每年排放到大气中的该种分子的质量相当于 地球上所有人类的体重总和
It's a huge amount of stuff. It's equal to the weight of methane.	这可是很大一堆东西，跟甲烷的总质量相当了
And because it's so much stuff, it's really important for the atmospheric system.	正因如此，这种分子对大气系统举足轻重
Because it's important to the atmospheric system, we go to all lengths to study this thing.	这种分子是如此重要 以至于我们不遗余力的去研究它
We blow it up and look at the pieces.	我们使它进行化学反应，然后看看反应遗留的分子碎片
This is the EUPHORE Smog Chamber in Spain.	这是位于西班牙的EUPHORE装置的烟雾室
Atmospheric explosions, or full combustion, takes about 15,000 times longer than what happens in your car.	分子在大气中经过充分的燃烧 这个过程所花费的时间比在你车里反应所花的长15000倍
But still, we look at the pieces.	即便如此，我们仍然观察反应结果
We run enormous models on supercomputers; this is what I happen to do.	我们在超级计算机上运行大量的模型 这正好是我在干的事
Our models have hundreds of thousands of grid boxes calculating hundreds of variables each, on minute timescales.	我们的模型里有成百上千的网格 每个网格在分钟级的时间尺度上计算成百个变量
And it takes weeks to perform our integrations.	我们花费数周的时间整合数据
And we perform dozens of integrations in order to understand what's happening.	为了理解究竟发生了什么， 我们进行数十次的整合
We also fly all over the world looking for this thing.	同时，我们在世界各地搜寻这种物质
I recently joined a field campaign in Malaysia. There are others.	最近我在马来西亚参加了一个野外研究项目，别处也有类似的项目
We found a global atmospheric watchtower there, in the middle of the rainforest, and hung hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of scientific equipment off this tower, to look for isoprene, and of course, other things while we were there.	我们在当地雨林里建立了一个全球大气监视塔 我们在塔上悬挂了 价值数十万美元的科学设备 这是都是为了探测异戊二烯分子 当然，也可以探测别的存在的东西
This is the tower in the middle of the rainforest, from above.	这就是雨林中的那座塔，这是从上看
And this is the tower from below.	再从下方看看
And on part of that field campaign we even brought an aircraft with us.	在上次的野外考察中我们还动用了
And this plane, the model, BA146, which was run by FAAM, normally flies 120 to 130 people.	FAAM旗下的BA146型飞机 这种飞机通常客容量在120至130人之间
So maybe you took a similar aircraft to get here today.	也许在座的各位今天就是搭乘类似的飞机到达会场的
But we didn't just fly it. We were flying at 100 meters above the top of the canopy to measure this molecule -- incredibly dangerous stuff.	但科学家的工作可不只是搭乘飞机这样简单。 为了测量这种分子飞机的飞行高度离森林中天棚似的树荫仅为100米--很危险
We have to fly at a special incline in order to make the measurements.	为了进行测量，飞机要保持在一个特殊的飞行角度
We hire military and test pilots to do the maneuvering.	为此我们请来军事和飞机试驾飞行员来驾驶飞机
We have to get special flight clearance.	此外我们还准备了特殊飞行许可
And as you come around the banks in these valleys, the forces can get up to two Gs.	当飞机一路从河谷飞过，阻力就已高达2G
And the scientists have to be completely harnessed in in order to make measurements while they're on board.	要进行测量 科学家们就一定要在机舱里进行控制
So, as you can imagine, the inside of this aircraft doesn't look like any plane you would take on vacation.	想象一下 我们的飞机机舱可不是普通飞机可以媲美的
It's a flying laboratory that we took to make measurements in the region of this molecule.	它是测量分子的空中实验室
We do all of this to understand the chemistry of one molecule.	这是我们为了解化学分子所进行的努力
And when one student like me has some sort of inclination or understanding about that molecule, they write one scientific paper on the subject.	像我一样的学生们要是对某一分子情有独钟 或有独到见解 就会把自己的看法写成科学论文
And out of that field campaign we'll probably get a few dozen papers on a few dozen processes or molecules.	然后对那几十种分子的研究就会积累 几十篇文章
And as a body of knowledge builds up, it will form one subsection, or one sub-subsection of an assessment like the IPCC, although we have others.	这样知识体系就构建起来了 次级学科，或次次级学科就形成了 包括IPCC在内，我们有很多这样的研究
And each one of the 11 chapters of the IPCC has six to ten subsections.	IPCC的11个章节中 都有六至十个次级学科
So you can imagine the scale of the effort.	科学的努力付出可见一斑
In each one of those assessments that we write, we always tag on a summary, and the summary is written for a non-scientific audience.	我们的每一篇研究报告 都会有一个 为普通大众所写的摘要
And we hand that summary to journalists and policy makers, in order to make headlines like these.	然后摘要就交给记者和政策制定者 新闻报道的标题就形成了
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
	（鼓掌）
Hi. I'm going to ask you to raise your arms and wave back, just the way I am -- kind of a royal wave.	嗨，请大家跟我一样将你的双手举起来回摆动。 就像我这样，有点像皇室出巡向人民挥手致敬般的摆动。
You can mimic what you can see.	你可以直接模仿我的挥动方式。
You can program the hundreds of muscles in your arm.	你可以安排你手臂中的上百条肌肉运作。
Soon, you'll be able to look inside your brain and program, control the hundreds of brain areas that you see there.	很快的你就可以看到你脑部内的运作方式， 编程、控制着脑部里各个不同区块的运作。
I'm going to tell you about that technology.	我现在就要来告诉大家这项技术
People have wanted to look inside the human mind, the human brain, for thousands of years.	人类数千年来都想一窥心智的内部运作 人的脑部运作。
Well, coming out of the research labs just now, for our generation, is the possibility to do that.	如今在这科技发达年代的我们有机会去达成它。
People envision this as being very difficult.	人们总认为这会是一向艰难的挑战。
You had to take a spaceship, shrink it down, inject it into the bloodstream.	因为你必须要将太空梭缩小后注射入人体的血管中。
It was terribly dangerous.	这是极度危险的事情。
You could be attacked by white blood cells in the arteries.	你可能会被动脉中的白血球攻击。
But now, we have a real technology to do this.	但现在我们真的有这样的技术去做这项研究。
We're going to fly into my colleague Peter's brain.	我们将要进入我同事彼得的脑中。
We're going to do it non-invasively using MRI.	且是用非侵入性的方法，那就是使用核磁共振造影。
We don't have to inject anything. We don't need radiation.	不必注入任何东西进入体内。不需要冒着辐射的危害。
We will be able to fly into the anatomy of Peter's brain -- literally, fly into his body -- but more importantly, we can look into his mind.	就能够进入彼得的脑部的解剖结构中，确确实实地飞入他的体内。 但更重要的是我们可以观察他的心智运作。
When Peter moves his arm, that yellow spot you see there is the interface to the functioning of Peter's mind taking place.	当彼得挥动他的手臂，你可以看那个黄色的点 是彼得脑中对应功能发生运作的地方。
Now you've seen before that with electrodes you can control robotic arms, that brain imaging and scanners can show you the insides of brains.	你们之前已经看过了，你可以透过电极控制机械手臂， 脑部成像及扫瞄器可以显示出你大脑内部。
What's new is that that process has typically taken days or months of analysis.	最新的进展是原本这个程序一般需经过几天甚至是几个月的分析。
We've collapsed that through technology to milliseconds, and that allows us to let Peter to look at his brain in real time as he's inside the scanner.	我们现在用最新技术可将时间缩短至几毫秒钟而已， 且当彼德在扫描器中可以同时看到自己的脑部运作。
He can look at these 65,000 points of activation per second.	他可以看到这些每秒内激发的65000点。
If he can see this pattern in his own brain, he can learn how to control it.	如果他可以看到在他自己脑袋中运作的模式，他便可以学习如何去控制它。
There have been three ways to try to impact the brain: the therapist's couch, pills and the knife.	有三种可以影响脑部的方法： 透过心理治疗师的治疗、药物和手术刀。
This is a fourth alternative that you are soon going to have.	很快你将有第四种不同的方法。
We all know that as we form thoughts, they form deep channels in our minds and in our brains.	大家都知道我们的想法形成是源于内心及脑部深处。
Chronic pain is an example. If you burn yourself, you pull your hand away.	慢性疼痛是一个例子。如果你烧到自己一定会马上缩手。
But if you're still in pain in six months' or six years' time, it's because these circuits are producing pain that's no longer helping you.	但如果你痛持续了6个月或6年， 这是因为这些神经回路产生的疼痛感对你不再具有帮助。
If we can look at the activation in the brain that's producing the pain, we can form 3D models and watch in real time the brain process information, and then we can select the areas that produce the pain.	如果我们可以观察大脑产生这些痛苦的活动情况， 我们便可以制作3D模型并即时观察大脑处理信息的方式， 我们就能够找出产生疼痛的区域。
So put your arms back up and flex your bicep.	把你手臂放在背后并使二头肌收缩。
Now imagine that you will soon be able to look inside your brain and select brain areas to do that same thing.	现在，想象你将很快能够看到你的大脑的内部 并选择脑部的区块去做同样的事。
What you're seeing here is, we've selected the pathways in the brain of a chronic pain patient.	你所看到的是我们已经找出一位慢性疼痛病人的大脑途径。
This may shock you, but we're literally reading this person's brain in real time.	也许你会觉得不可思议，但我们现在正即时且"逐字逐句"地读这个人的大脑。
They're watching their own brain activation, and they're controlling the pathway that produces their pain.	他们正看着自己的大脑活动， 而且他们控制产生痛苦的途径。
They're learning to flex this system that releases their own endogenous opiates.	他们正在学习去调节这个路径，可使他们不必再服用止痛剂。
As they do it, in the upper left is a display that's yoked to their brain activation of their own pain being controlled.	左上角所显示就是他们正在做的事情 这方法使他们大脑所产生的痛苦被控制住。
When they control their brain, they can control their pain.	当他们控制自己的大脑，便可控制他们的痛苦。
This is an investigational technology, but, in clinical trials, we're seeing a 44 to 64 percent decrease in chronic pain patients.	这是一个研究中的技术， 但在临床试验中我们看到慢性疼痛病人减少了百分之44到64。
This is not "The Matrix." You can only do this to yourself. You take control.	这不是"骇客任务"。只有你自己可以握有控制权。
I've seen inside my brain. You will too, soon.	我已经看过我的大脑内部，很快的你也可以。
When you do, what do you want to control?	当你可以控制你的脑部，你想要控制什么呢？
You will be able to look at all the aspects that make you yourself, all your experiences.	您将能够全方位了解自己人格组成的各方面及自己的经验。
These are some of the areas we're working on today that I don't have time to go into in detail.	有一些区块我们还在努力研究，今天我没有时间去深入论述。
But I want to leave with you the big question.	但结束前我想要问大家一个重要问题。
We are the first generation that's going to be able to enter into, using this technology, the human mind and brain.	我们是第一代可以有办法进入探索脑内部的人类， 利用这个科技技术去了解人类的脑部及心灵。
Where will we take it?	这项技术将在未来发展成什么样子呢？
Evidence suggests that humans in all ages and from all cultures create their identity in some kind of narrative form.	有证据表明不同年龄和有不同文化背景的人们 从不同叙事方式中创造个人特色
From mother to daughter, preacher to congregant, teacher to pupil, storyteller to audience.	从母亲到女儿，牧师到会众 老师到学生，说书人到听众
Whether in cave paintings or the latest uses of the Internet, human beings have always told their histories and truths through parable and fable.	不论在岩壁绘画 还是最新的互联网应用 人类总是通过寓言或者故事 来讲述他们的历史和真理
We are inveterate storytellers.	我们是骨子里的说书人
But where, in our increasingly secular and fragmented world, do we offer communality of experience, unmediated by our own furious consumerism?	但是在我们日渐世俗和破碎的世界中 我们是否在分享共通的经验 而不受我们冲动的消费主义影响?
And what narrative, what history, what identity, what moral code are we imparting to our young?	而哪种叙事，哪种历史 哪种身份，哪种道德规范 我们正在传输给年轻一代?
Cinema is arguably the 20th century's most influential art form.	电影可以说是 20世纪最有影响力的艺术形式
Its artists told stories across national boundaries, in as many languages, genres and philosophies as one can imagine.	电影艺术家通过电影讲故事 跨越国界 用不同语言，形式和哲学 应有尽有
Indeed, it is hard to find a subject that film has yet to tackle.	事实上，没有一个主题 电影不曾涉及
During the last decade we've seen a vast integration of global media, now dominated by a culture of the Hollywood blockbuster.	在过去的十年中 我们见证了全球媒体被大量整合 现在由好莱坞商业大片文化为主导
We are increasingly offered a diet in which sensation, not story, is king.	呈现在我们面前的电影大餐逐渐有这样的趋势 感官刺激，而并故事本身，才是王道
What was common to us all 40 years ago -- the telling of stories between generations -- is now rarified.	而四十年前我们常见的—— 世代间讲述故事的方式—— 在当今几乎难以见到
As a filmmaker, it worried me.	身为电影制作者，我深感忧虑
As a human being, it puts the fear of God in me.	身为人类的一员，我深感恐惧
What future could the young build with so little grasp of where they've come from and so few narratives of what's possible?	我们的年轻人将如何创造未来? 他们如此缺乏 了解过去的机会 以及可供参照未来可能性的叙述
The irony is palpable; technical access has never been greater, cultural access never weaker.	这真有讽刺意味 技术正取得史无前例的发展 文化却变得前所未有的贫瘠
And so in 2006 we set up FILMCLUB, an organization that ran weekly film screenings in schools followed by discussions.	所以在2006年我们创立了"电影俱乐部"组织 它每周在学校放映电影 并在放映后组织讨论
If we could raid the annals of 100 years of film, maybe we could build a narrative that would deliver meaning to the fragmented and restless world of the young.	如果我们可以获得一百年来的电影资料 或许我们可以创建一个讲述系统 让它把内涵 传输给这个支离破碎、不安躁动世界中的年轻人
Given the access to technology, even a school in a tiny rural hamlet could project a DVD onto a white board.	随着技术的普及 一个偏远小村庄的学校 也可以在白板上投影DVD
In the first nine months we ran 25 clubs across the U.K., with kids in age groups between five and 18 watching a film uninterrupted for 90 minutes.	在刚开始的九个月中 我们在英国举行了25个俱乐部活动 让五到十八岁的孩子 不间断地看完了一部90分钟的电影
The films were curated and contextualized.	这些电影放映都经过策划，并与情境相结合
But the choice was theirs, and our audience quickly grew to choose the richest and most varied diet that we could provide.	但最终选择权在孩子们手上 我们的观众成长迅速 选出的片子是我们提供的电影中最有价值和最多元的
The outcome, immediate.	成果立竿见影
It was an education of the most profound and transformative kind.	这是最有深远影响的教育方式
In groups as large as 150 and as small as three, these young people discovered new places, new thoughts, new perspectives.	我们的俱乐部小组多达150人，少至3人 这些年轻人发现新事物 新思想和新观点
By the time the pilot had finished, we had the names of a thousand schools that wished to join.	当第一轮试验活动结束时 有1000多个学校 想加入这个俱乐部
The film that changed my life is a 1951 film by Vittorio De Sica, "Miracle in Milan."	改变我一生的电影 是1951年维托里奥·德·西卡导演的《米兰奇迹》
It's a remarkable comment on slums, poverty and aspiration.	它对一些事物提出了真知灼见 包括贫民窟、贫穷和梦想
I had seen the film on the occasion of my father's 50th birthday.	在我父亲五十岁生日上我看到了这部影片
Technology then meant we had to hire a viewing cinema, find and pay for the print and the projectionist.	当时的技术要求我们租用放映厅 雇佣放映师并支付冲洗胶片的费用
But for my father, the emotional and artistic importance of De Sica's vision was so great that he chose to celebrate his half-century with his three teenage children and 30 of their friends, "In order," he said, "to pass the baton of concern and hope on to the next generation."	但对我父亲来说 德·西卡在情感和艺术上表现的情境对他如此重要 以致他选择在半百生日这天 与他三个十几岁的孩子，以及孩子的30个朋友一起观看 他说："这是为了 把关怀和希望的接力棒 传递给下一代。"
In the last shot of "Miracle in Milan," slum-dwellers float skyward on flying brooms.	《米兰奇迹》的最后一幕里 贫民窟里的人们坐着扫帚飞向天空
Sixty years after the film was made and 30 years after I first saw it, I see young faces tilt up in awe, their incredulity matching mine.	在这部电影拍摄60年后 我第一次看到它的30年后 我看到年轻人仰幕地看着它们升起 他们和我当时一样感到难以置信
And the speed with which they associate it with "Slumdog Millionaire" or the favelas in Rio speaks to the enduring nature.	他们很快地将它与《贫民窟的百万富翁》 或者里约热内卢的贫民窟联系起来 说明电影的主题经久不衰
In a FILMCLUB season about democracy and government, we screened "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington."	在一季有关民主与政府的电影季 我们放映了《史密斯先生到华盛顿 》
Made in 1939, the film is older than most of our members' grandparents.	这部电影在1939年摄制，比大部分成员的祖父母年龄都大
Frank Capra's classic values independence and propriety.	这部由弗兰克·卡普拉执导的经典作品颂扬了独立和礼节
It shows how to do right, how to be heroically awkward.	它传达了如何做对的事 如何做不羁的英雄
It is also an expression of faith in the political machine as a force of honor.	它也宣扬了在政治机器中 怀抱信仰并以此为荣
Shortly after "Mr. Smith" became a FILMCLUB classic, there was a week of all-night filibustering in the House of Lords.	在这部电影成为电影俱乐部经典之后不久 在英国议会上院上演了一次长达一周的彻夜议事阻挠
And it was with great delight that we found young people up and down the country explaining with authority what filibustering was and why the Lords might defy their bedtime on a point of principle.	我们欣慰地发现 国内的年轻人 正在权威地解释 议事阻挠是什么 为什么上院议员们要牺牲睡眠来捍卫原则
After all, Jimmy Stewart filibustered for two entire reels.	詹姆斯·史都华毕竟在电影里阻挠了两轮议事
In choosing "Hotel Rwanda," they explored genocide of the most brutal kind.	我们放映《卢旺达饭店》时 年轻人看到了最残酷的种族屠杀
It provoked tears as well as incisive questions about unarmed peace-keeping forces and the double-dealing of a Western society that picks its moral fights with commodities in mind.	它让年轻人流泪，也提出了尖锐的问题 关于没有武装的维和部队 和两面三刀的西方社会 表面上为理想而战，内心里却藏着商业利益
And when "Schindler's List" demanded that they never forget, one child, full of the pain of consciousness, remarked, "We already forgot, otherwise how did 'Hotel Rwanda' happen?"	当《辛德勒的名单》提到人们永远不会忘记历史的教训 一个心中充满觉醒后的悲痛的孩子说 "我们已经忘记了 不然为什么《卢旺达饭店》这样的事会发生?"
As they watch more films their lives got palpably richer.	当他们看到更多的电影, 他们的生活明显更加丰富
"Pickpocket" started a debate about criminality disenfranchisement.	《扒手》引发了关于罪犯是否应被剥夺公民权利的讨论
"To Sir, with Love" ignited its teen audience.	《念师恩》激励了年青人
They celebrated a change in attitude towards non-white Britons, but railed against our restless school system that does not value collective identity, unlike that offered by Sidney Poitier's careful tutelage.	弘扬了人们对于非白人英国人的 态度转变 却也表达了对学校制度的不满 现有的制度并不看重集体认同 不像西德尼·波蒂埃那样悉心教导
By now, these thoughtful, opinionated, curious young people thought nothing of tackling films of all forms -- black and white, subtitled, documentary, non-narrative, fantasy -- and thought nothing of writing detailed reviews that competed to favor one film over another in passionate and increasingly sophisticated prose.	现在, 这些有思想, 有主见, 有好奇心的年轻人 毫无顾忌地涉猎各种类型的电影—— 黑白片, 外语片 记录片, 非叙事性电影, 奇幻片—— 毫无顾忌地写出详细的影评 用热情和日渐复杂的笔调 来比较不同的电影
Six thousand reviews each school week vying for the honor of being review of the week.	每周都有六千篇影评投稿 来竞争"本周影评"的荣誉称号
From 25 clubs, we became hundreds, then thousands, until we were nearly a quarter of a million kids in 7,000 clubs right across the country.	我们的俱乐部从25个, 发展到成百上千个 直到我们拥有了近25万的儿童 分布在全国7000个俱乐部中
And although the numbers were, and continue to be, extraordinary, what became more extraordinary was how the experience of critical and curious questioning translated into life.	虽然这个数目正在并继续在以卓越的速度增长 但最为卓越的是 他们将这种批判思考和好奇提问的经历 转化到日常生活中
Some of our kids started talking with their parents, others with their teachers, or with their friends.	一些孩子开始与父母沟通交流 一些和老师 还有一些和朋友
And those without friends started making them.	那些没有朋友的孩子 开始结交朋友
The films provided communality across all manner of divide.	这些电影为各种分界提供了共通性
And the stories they held provided a shared experience.	它们讲述的故事提供了共通的经历
"Persepolis" brought a daughter closer to her Iranian mother, and "Jaws" became the way in which one young boy was able to articulate the fear he'd experienced in flight from violence that killed first his father then his mother, the latter thrown overboard on a boat journey.	《我在伊朗长大》拉近了女儿和她伊朗母亲的距离 《大白鲨》使一个年轻男孩能够讲述 他从一场暴力中逃脱的经历 他父母相继在这个事件中 被夺去了生命 后来他母亲被从船上抛下
Who was right, who wrong?	谁是对的, 谁是错的?
What would they do under the same conditions?	在相同的情景中他们会怎么做?
Was the tale told well?	故事讲得好不好?
Was there a hidden message?	有没有隐藏的话语?
How has the world changed? How could it be different?	这世界会怎么改变? 它将如何变得不同?
A tsunami of questions flew out of the mouths of children who the world didn't think were interested.	许多问题从孩子们口中海啸般喷涌而出 这世界原以为他们对这些并不感兴趣
And they themselves had not known they cared.	连他们自己过去也不知道他们在乎这些
And as they wrote and debated, rather than seeing the films as artifacts, they began to see themselves.	当他们书写和辩论的时候 而不把电影当作人造物品 他们开始看到了他们自己
I have an aunt who is a wonderful storyteller.	我有一个很会说故事的姑姑
In a moment she can invoke images of running barefoot on Table Mountain and playing cops and robbers.	在很短的时间她可以让 赤脚在桌山赤脚奔跑玩警匪游戏的场景重现
Quite recently she told me that in 1948, two of her sisters and my father traveled on a boat to Israel without my grandparents.	最近她和我说 在1948年她的两个姐妹和我父亲 一起乘船到以色列而没有和我祖父母同行
When the sailors mutinied at sea in a demand for humane conditions, it was these teenagers that fed the crew.	当船员们为了得到人道待遇而造反时 是这些少年们喂饱了船员
I was past 40 when my father died.	我父母去世时我已过40岁
He never mentioned that journey.	他从没和我提及这段经历
My mother's mother left Europe in a hurry without her husband, but with her three-year-old daughter and diamonds sewn into the hem of her skirt.	我外祖母离开欧洲时很匆忙 丈夫没在身边, 却带着她三岁的女儿 和缝在裙子褶边上的钻石
After two years in hiding, my grandfather appeared in London.	在躲藏两年过后 我外祖父在伦敦出现了
He was never right again.	他的人生再也没有上过正道
And his story was hushed as he assimilated.	他的故事也随着他被同化而尘封
My story started in England with a clean slate and the silence of immigrant parents.	我的故事从英国开始 背景清白, 双亲是沉默的移民
I had "Anne Frank," "The Great Escape," "Shoah," "Triumph of the Will."	我看过《安妮日记》,《大逃亡》 《大屠杀》,《意志的胜利》
It was Leni Riefenstahl in her elegant Nazi propaganda who gave context to what the family had to endure.	莱尼·里芬斯塔尔 制作的亲纳粹宣传 让我更加了解我的家庭经历的苦难
These films held what was too hurtful to say out loud, and they became more useful to me than the whispers of survivors and the occasional glimpse of a tattoo on a maiden aunt's wrist.	这些电影里有太多无法言说的沉痛的故事 它们对我的帮助 比幸存者的低语 和我偶然看到的单身阿姨腕上的刺青 都要多
Purists may feel that fiction dissipates the quest of real human understanding, that film is too crude to tell a complex and detailed history, or that filmmakers always serve drama over truth.	纯粹主义者也许认为虚构的故事 弱化了对真实感知的探索 认为电影太粗糙 无法讲述复杂又详细的历史 或是电影制作人常常更着重戏剧性而非真相
But within the reels lie purpose and meaning.	但电影的核心存在着目的和意义
As one 12-year-old said after watching "Wizard of Oz," "Every person should watch this, because unless you do you may not know that you too have a heart."	正如一个十二岁的孩子看完《绿野仙踪》后说 "每个人都应该看这部电影 因为如果你不看的话 你可能永远也不知道你也有一颗心"
We honor reading, why not honor watching with the same passion?	我们尊重阅读, 我们为什么不用同样的热情来尊重看电影?
Consider "Citizen Kane" as valuable as Jane Austen.	认为《公民凯恩》和简·奥斯汀一样有价值
Agree that "Boyz n the Hood," like Tennyson, offers an emotional landscape and a heightened understanding that work together.	同意《街区男孩》和丁尼生一样 将情感印象和加深的理性了解 融会贯通
Each a piece of memorable art, each a brick in the wall of who we are.	每一件给人记忆深刻的艺术品 都是建筑我们人生的一块砖
And it's okay if we remember Tom Hanks better than astronaut Jim Lovell or have Ben Kingsley's face superimposed onto that of Gandhi's.	如果我们记得汤姆·汉克斯 多过宇航员吉姆·洛弗尔 或是把甘地想象成本·金斯利的样子都没有关系
And though not real, Eve Harrington, Howard Beale, Mildred Pierce are an opportunity to discover what it is to be human, and no less helpful to understanding our life and times as Shakespeare is in illuminating the world of Elizabethan England.	虽然都不是真的, 伊芙·哈林顿, 霍华德·比尔, 米尔德丽德·皮尔斯 都是探索的机会 去发现人生的各种可能 电影对理解人生和时代的帮助 不亚于莎士比亚帮助理解伊莉莎白时期的英国
We guessed that film, whose stories are a meeting place of drama, music, literature and human experience, would engage and inspire the young people participating in FILMCLUB.	我们认为电影 提供了一个交会之处 戏剧, 音乐, 文学和人类经验会聚在此 电影吸引和启发参加电影俱乐部的年轻人
What we could not have foreseen was the measurable improvements in behavior, confidence and academic achievement.	我们过去不曾预见的方面 都取得了显著的进展 包括行为, 信心, 还有学业成绩
Once-reluctant students now race to school, talk to their teachers, fight, not on the playground, but to choose next week's film -- young people who have found self-definition, ambition and an appetite for education and social engagement from the stories they have witnessed.	一个不爱上学的学生现在跑到学校和老师谈天 争吵, 但不是为了玩 而是为了选择下周的电影—— 年轻人找到了自我认同, 抱负 对教育和参与社会活动的渴望 这些都来自于他们见证过的故事
Our members defy the binary description of how we so often describe our young.	我们的成员挑战社会传统 对于年轻人的二分法描述
They are neither feral nor myopically self-absorbed.	他们既不野蛮也不短视自私
They are, like other young people, negotiating a world with infinite choice, but little culture of how to find meaningful experience.	他们就像其他年轻人一样 和这个世界打交道, 这世界有着无限的选择 却几乎没有可以让他们参考, 来找寻有意义人生的文化
We appeared surprised at the behaviors of those who define themselves by the size of the tick on their shoes, yet acquisition has been the narrative we have offered.	我们对那些不费力气 便找到自我认同感的年轻人 感到惊奇 虽然他们这种能力来自于我们提供的叙事文本
If we want different values we have to tell a different story, a story that understands that an individual narrative is an essential component of a person's identity, that a collective narrative is an essential component of a cultural identity, and without it it is impossible to imagine yourself as part of a group.	如果我们希望有不同的价值观 我们就需要讲述不同的故事 这样的故事了解个人的叙事 是形成个人认同的重要元素 而群体的叙事 是形成文化认同的重要元素 如果没有这种集体叙事, 我们难以想象 自己是集体的一部分
Because when these people get home after a screening of "Rear Window" and raise their gaze to the building next door, they have the tools to wonder who, apart from them, is out there and what is their story.	因为当这些年轻人 看完《后窗》回家后 他们将目光投向隔壁的楼房 他们想知道除了他们 外面的世界还有谁 他们有怎样的故事
Thank you.	谢谢
It's a great time to be a molecular biologist.	时下，当一名分子生物学家真是太美妙了
Reading and writing DNA code is getting easier and cheaper.	读写DNA密码越来越简单 也越来便宜
By the end of this year, we'll be able to sequence the three million bits of information in your genome in less than a day and for less than 1,000 euros.	今年底，我们就能 在不到一天的时间里 排列出你体内基因组内包含的三百万比特的信息 而这只花不到1000欧元
Biotech is probably the most powerful and the fastest-growing technology sector.	生物科技可能是整个科技领域 最强大，发展最快的一个分支
It has the power, potentially, to replace our fossil fuels, to revolutionize medicine, and to touch every aspect of our daily lives.	它极有可能 取代化石燃料 彻底革新医学药品 影响我们日常生活的方方面面
So who gets to do it?	那么谁会让这些成为现实呢？
I think we'd all be pretty comfortable with this guy doing it.	我觉得可能我们比较愿意 让这个人来做
But what about that guy?	那这个人 如何？
In 2009, I first heard about DIYbio.	2009年，我第一次听说"DIY生物学"
It's a movement that -- it advocates making biotechnology accessible to everyone, not just scientists and people in government labs.	这是一场旨在 让每个人都能接触生物科技的运动 而不仅仅是科学家和政府实验室的工作人员
The idea is that if you open up the science and you allow diverse groups to participate, it could really stimulate innovation.	这一运动的理念在于，如果你真正开放科学探索 并让各行各业的人参与进来 将会激发真正的创新
Putting technology in the hands of the end user is usually a good idea because they've got the best idea of what their needs are.	让最终消费者去接触科技 是一个很好的想法，因为他们最清楚 自己的需求是什么
And here's this really sophisticated technology coming down the road, all these associated social, moral, ethical questions, and we scientists are just lousy at explaining to the public just exactly what it is we're doing in those labs.	当一些复杂难懂的科技 出现在市面上，并引发相关的 社会、道德、伦理问题 科学家们只能不厌其烦地向公众解释 我们在这样的实验室里已经做过的事情
So wouldn't it be nice if there was a place in your local neighborhood where you could go and learn about this stuff, do it hands-on?	如果 你家附近有个地方 可以了解这些东西 还能亲身实践，不是很好吗？
I thought so.	我觉得这样很好
So, three years ago, I got together with some friends of mine who had similar aspirations and we founded Genspace.	所以，三年前我 同一些有类似想法的朋友一起 建立了Genspace
It's a nonprofit, a community biotech lab in Brooklyn, New York, and the idea was people could come, they could take classes and putter around in the lab in a very open, friendly atmosphere.	它是个非营利社区性质的生物科技实验室 位于纽约布鲁克林 它的理念是人们可以过来 在开放友好的气氛中 上上课，在实验室里做些小实验
None of my previous experience prepared me for what came next. Can you guess?	我之前所有的经历 都不足以让我预知接下来发生了什么。你能猜得到吗？
The press started calling us.	媒体开始给我们打电话
And the more we talked about how great it was to increase science literacy, the more they wanted to talk about us creating the next Frankenstein, and as a result, for the next six months, when you Googled my name, instead of getting my scientific papers, you got this.	我们想谈提高科学素质是多么好的一件事 而他们却想谈 我们将会创造出下一个科学怪人（小说《弗兰肯斯坦》：主人公成功地创造出人工生命，但最终与其同归与尽） 结果，接下来的半年里 在Google上搜索我名字的时候 搜到的不是我的科技论文
["Am I a biohazard?"] It was pretty depressing.	而是["我是个生化危机源"？] 我特别沮丧
The only thing that got us through that period was that we knew that all over the world, there were other people that were trying to do the same thing that we were.	支撑着我们挺过那段时期的唯一的东西 就是我们知道，在世界的其他地方 也有人试着 在做跟我们一样的事情
They were opening biohacker spaces, and some of them were facing much greater challenges than we did, more regulations, less resources.	这就是早期的生物黑客 他们中一些人面临着比我们更大的压力 更多的限制和更少的资源
But now, three years later, here's where we stand.	但如今，三年后，我们已经发展成这样
It's a vibrant, global community of hackerspaces, and this is just the beginning.	成为了一个生机勃勃的全球生物黑客社区 而这仅仅只是个开始
These are some of the biggest ones, and there are others opening every day.	这些只是稍大型的黑客空间 每天都有其他的在新开放
There's one probably going to open up in Moscow, one in South Korea, and the cool thing is they each have their own individual flavor that grew out of the community they came out of.	在莫斯科可能会开放一个 在韩国也会有一个 有意思的是它们每一个 都有自己独特的特色 这种特色根植于本土社区
Let me take you on a little tour.	让我带着大家看一看
Biohackers work alone.	独自工作的生物黑客
We work in groups, in big cities — — and in small villages.	一起工作的 在大城市 小村庄
We reverse engineer lab equipment.	设计工程实验室设备
We genetically engineer bacteria.	用遗传基因的方法制造细菌
We hack hardware, software, wetware, and, of course, the code of life.	我们发掘研究硬件 软件 湿件 当然还有生命的密码
We like to build things.	我们喜欢造东西
Then we like to take things apart.	又喜欢拆东西
We make things grow.	我们让生物生长
We make things glow.	让物体发光
And we make cells dance.	让细胞跳舞
The spirit of these labs, it's open, it's positive, but, you know, sometimes when people think of us, the first thing that comes to mind is bio-safety, bio-security, all the dark side stuff.	这些实验室的氛围是开放的，积极的 但你知道，有时人们想到我们 第一个念头就是生物安全 以及其它黑暗的方面
I'm not going to minimize those concerns.	我不会试着去打消这些顾虑
Any powerful technology is inherently dual use, and, you know, you get something like synthetic biology, nanobiotechnology, it really compels you, you have to look at both the amateur groups but also the professional groups, because they have better infrastructure, they have better facilities, and they have access to pathogens.	因为任何强大科技的作用，生来都是两面性的 如果你对 合成生物学，纳米生物科技这种东西 真正感兴趣，就必须 同时关注相关业余爱好群体和专业人士 因为他们有更好的基础设施 更好的设备 也能直接接触病原体
So the United Nations did just that, and they recently issued a report on this whole area, and what they concluded was the power of this technology for positive was much greater than the risk for negative, and they even looked specifically at the DIYbio community, and they noted, not surprisingly, that the press had a tendency to consistently overestimate our capabilities and underestimate our ethics.	联合国就是这样做的。最近 他们就整个生物科技领域发布了一份报告 并得出结论，这种科技的影响 积极意义要远远大于消极意义 他们还特意强调了DIY生物学这一领域 指出媒体一直有一种 高估我们的能力 而低估我们的道德水准的倾向
As a matter of fact, DIY people from all over the world, America, Europe, got together last year, and we hammered out a common code of ethics.	事实上，来自世界各地 包括美洲，欧洲的DIY生物学家去年已经在去年 共同敲定了我们的道德准则
That's a lot more than conventional science has done.	而传统科学却没有做到这一点
Now, we follow state and local regulations.	我们遵循国家和地区的规定
We dispose of our waste properly, we follow safety procedures, we don't work with pathogens.	合理处置废料垃圾 遵守安全细则，不使用病原体
You know, if you're working with a pathogen, you're not part of the biohacker community, you're part of the bioterrorist community, I'm sorry.	如果你使用了病原体 你就不是生物黑客社区的一份子 你就是生物恐怖分子社区的成员，抱歉
And sometimes people ask me, "Well, what about an accident?"	有时候有人问我 "那么万一发生事故怎么办？"
Well, working with the safe organisms that we normally work with, the chance of an accident happening with somebody accidentally creating, like, some sort of superbug, that's literally about as probable as a snowstorm in the middle of the Sahara Desert.	我可以这样说，使用常规安全的生物体 事故发生的几率 就像不小心创造出 某种超级细菌一样 就同一场暴雪 降临在沙哈拉沙漠正中一样小
Now, it could happen, but I'm not going to plan my life around it.	它确实有可能发生 但我不打算为这种事担扰
I've actually chosen to take a different kind of risk.	我实际上准备冒另一种"风险"
I signed up for something called the Personal Genome Project.	我签署了一个叫Personal Genome的项目
It's a study at Harvard where, at the end of the study, they're going to take my entire genomic sequence, all of my medical information, and my identity, and they're going to post it online for everyone to see.	它是一项在哈佛大学进行的项目， 研究结束后，我所有的基因序列 医疗信息，个人身份 都会由他们公布在网络上，所有人都能看到
There were a lot of risks involved that they talked about during the informed consent portion.	在知情同意环节时 他们谈论了很多可能遇到的风险
The one I liked the best is, someone could download my sequence, go back to the lab, synthesize some fake Ellen DNA, and plant it at a crime scene.	我最喜欢的一个是 有人下载了我们基因序列，回到实验室 合成一个假Ellen的DNA 然后放在一个犯罪现场里
But like DIYbio, the positive outcomes and the potential for good for a study like that far outweighs the risk.	但像DIY生物学一样，我相信它正面的结果 以及为带来研究的益处 还是超过了风险
Now, you might be asking yourself, "Well, you know, what would I do in a biolab?"	也许你会自问 "在生物实验室我都能做些什么？"
Well, it wasn't that long ago we were asking, "Well, what would anyone do with a personal computer?"	不久前类似的问题也有过 "人们用电脑都能做些什么？"
So this stuff is just beginning.	所以，这仅仅是个开始
We're only seeing just the tip of the DNA iceberg.	我们只是瞥见了DNA的冰山一角
Let me show you what you could do right now.	让我告诉你你现在能做些什么
A biohacker in Germany, a journalist, wanted to know whose dog was leaving little presents on his street?	一位德国的生物黑客，也是个记者，他想知道 谁家的狗在他家附近的街道上留下了"小礼物"
Yep, you guessed it. He threw tennis balls to all the neighborhood dogs, analyzed the saliva, identified the dog, and confronted the dog owner.	你们猜对了！他向 所有邻居家的狗扔网球，分析唾液成分 找到了那只狗，并向主人说明了情况
I discovered an invasive species in my own backyard.	我在我家后院发现了一只"入侵物种"
Looked like a ladybug, right?	看上去像只瓢虫，是吗？
It actually is a Japanese beetle.	其实是只日本金龟子
And the same kind of technology -- it's called DNA barcoding, it's really cool -- You can use it to check if your caviar is really beluga, if that sushi is really tuna, or if that goat cheese that you paid so much for is really goat's.	同样的 这种叫做DNA条形码的技术，真的很酷-- 你可以通过它确认你吃的是不是真正的白鲟鱼鱼子酱 是不是真的金枪鱼寿司，或者 你花了大价钱买到的山羊乳干酪是不是真的山羊乳
In a biohacker space, you can analyze your genome for mutations.	作为一名生物黑客 你可以分析你有没有基因上的变异
You can analyze your breakfast cereal for GMO's, and you can explore your ancestry.	你可以分析你早餐麦片里的转基因成分 你还可以探索你的祖先，血统
You can send weather balloons up into the stratosphere, collect microbes, see what's up there.	把气象气球发送到平流层 采集微生物，看看里面有什么
You can make a biocensor out of yeast to detect pollutants in water.	你可以用酵母当做生物传感器 来检测水污染
You can make some sort of a biofuel cell.	合成某种生物燃料细胞
You can do a lot of things.	你可以做无数的事情
You can also do an art science project. Some of these are really spectacular, and they look at social, ecological problems from a completely different perspective.	你还可以进行艺术科学项目 有些项目真的很赞 从完全不同的角度审视社会和生态问题
It's really cool.	真的很酷
Some people ask me, well, why am I involved?	有人会问，为什么我要参与这种事儿？
I could have a perfectly good career in mainstream science.	我可以在主流科学行业里有很好的工作
The thing is, there's something in these labs that they have to offer society that you can't find anywhere else.	问题关键是，在这样的实验室里 有些东西是你在别处找不到的 有些东西是你在别处找不到的
There's something sacred about a space where you can work on a project, and you don't have to justify to anyone that it's going to make a lot of money, that it's going to save mankind, or even that it's feasible.	黑客空间有好的一面，就是 你可以开展项目 而无须向任何人解释"它会带来丰厚的利润" 无须向任何人解释"它会拯救人类"，甚至"它能够行得通"
It just has to follow safety guidelines.	只要遵循安全规定
If you had spaces like this all over the world, it could really change the perception of who's allowed to do biotech.	如果在世界各地都有这样的地方 那将会真正改变人们对于 "谁才有资格接触生物科技"这一问题的观念
It's spaces like these that spawned personal computing.	就是这样的地方，推动了个人电脑的应用和传播
Why not personal biotech?	所以为什么不能让个人生物科技也如此呢？
If everyone in this room got involved, who knows what we could do?	如果在场的每个人都参与进来 谁都想象不到我们能够做到什么
This is such a new area, and as we say back in Brooklyn, you ain't seen nothin' yet.	这是个全新的领域，正如刚才提到布鲁克林时我讲到的 还有更厉害的呢。
Thank you.	谢谢。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
That was whistling.	这就是吹口哨。
I'm trying to do this in English.	我试着用英语来说。
What is a chubby, curly-haired guy from Holland -- why is he whistling?	好一个从荷兰来的胖胖的卷毛儿的家伙呀！ 他为什么要吹口哨？
Well actually, I've [been] whistling since the age of four, about four.	事实上，我大概从4岁起就开始吹口哨了。
My dad was always whistling around the house, and I just thought that's part of communication in my family.	我爸爸总是在屋子周围吹口哨， 我认为那是我家庭沟通的一部分。
So I whistled along with him.	于是我开始和他一起吹。
And actually, till I was 34, I always annoyed and irritated people with whistling, because, to be honest, my whistling is a kind of deviant behavior.	事实上直到34岁前， 我总是用吹口哨烦扰甚至激怒人们。 因为，说老实话， 我吹口哨成了一种怪异的行为。
I whistled alone. I whistled in the classroom.	我有时独自吹，有时在教室吹，
I whistled on [my] bike. I whistled everywhere.	有时边骑自行车边吹，我随处都在吹口哨。
And I also whistled at a Christmas Eve party with my family-in-law.	我也在平安夜派对上吹， 在我岳父家里。
And they had some, in my opinion, terrible Christmas music.	在我看来他们放了一些 很糟糕的圣诞音乐。
And when I hear music that I don't like, I try to make it better.	当我听到自己不喜欢的音乐时， 我试着把它"吹"得更好。
So "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" -- you know it?	《红鼻子驯鹿鲁道夫》，你们知道吧？
But it can also sound like this.	它也可以被演绎成这样：
But during a Christmas party -- at dinner actually -- it's very annoying.	但是在圣诞派对上， 确切的说是在晚餐上，这很招人烦。
So my sister-in-law asked me a few times, "Please stop whistling."	所以我的小姨子 几次要求我"别再吹了！"
And I just couldn't.	然而我就是停不下来。
And at one point -- and I had some wine, I have to admit that -- at one point I said, "If there was a contest, I would join."	我得承认，在喝了点小酒的情况下， 我冒出了这句话：如果有那么一个口哨大赛，我就去参加。
And two weeks later I received a text message: "You're going to America."	两周后， 我收到了一条短信：你要去美国啦！
So, okay, I'm going to America.	所以，好吧，我要去美国啦！
I would love to, but why?	我很想去，但是为什么去呢？
So I immediately called her up, of course.	我理所当然地立刻给她打了电话。
She Googled, and she found this World Whistling Championship in America, of course.	她"谷歌"过了， 然后发现了这个世界口哨锦标赛。 当然，是在美国举办的。
She didn't expect me to go there.	她没认为我真会去那儿。
And I would have lost my face.	我会丢人现眼的。
I don't know if that's correct English.	我不知道这么用英语说对不对。
But the Dutch people here will understand what I mean.	不过在场的荷兰人可以明白我的意思。
I lost my face.	我真的丢人现眼了。
And she thought, "He will never go there."	她想，"他不会去参加的。"
But actually I did.	但事实上，我去了。
So I went to Louisburg, North Carolina, southeast United States, and I entered the world of whistling.	我到了北卡罗来纳州的路易斯堡， 在美国东南部。 我随之走进了口哨的世界。
And I also entered the world championship, and I won there in 2004.	我也进入了世界锦标赛， 并且赢得了2004年的冠军。
That was great fun, of course.	这…… 这当然很有趣。
And to defend my title -- like judokas do and sportsmen -- I thought, well let's go back in 2005, and I won again.	为了捍卫了自己的头衔， 你知道，像男人或者运动员那样， 我想，2005年再去一次吧， 然后我就又赢了一次。
Then I couldn't participate for a few years.	之后我有几年不能参赛。
And in 2008 I entered again in Japan, Tokyo, and I won again.	再之后，2008年，我又参加了一次， 在日本东京，并且我又赢了。
So what happened now is I'm standing here in Rotterdam, in the beautiful city, on a big stage, and I'm talking about whistling.	于是就有了现在这个 站在鹿特丹这座优美的城市中一个大舞台上演讲的我， 讲述着关于口哨的事情。
And actually I earn my money whistling at the moment.	事实上我现在靠吹口哨赚钱。
So I quit my day job as a nurse.	于是我辞去了护士的工作。
And I try to live my dream -- well, actually, it was never my dream, but it sounds so good.	我试图实现我的梦想。 其实事实上，这根本不是我的梦想，但它听上去好极了。
Okay, I'm not the only one whistling here.	各位，我并不是在场唯一吹口哨的。
You say, "Huh, what do you mean?"	你会说："呃，你什么意思？"
Well actually, you are going to whistle along.	好的，事实上，大家要一起吹。
And then always the same thing happens: people are watching each other and think, "Oh, my God.	接着总是会发生同样的事—— 人们面面相觑，心里暗想："哦，天哪。
Why? Can I go away?"	为什么要这样？我可以走吗？"
No, you can't.	不，你不行。
Actually it's very simple.	事实上，这很简单。
The track that I will whistle is called "Fête de la Belle."	我要吹的这段 叫《美的盛宴》。
It's about 80 minutes long.	大概80分钟长。
No, no, no. It's four minutes long.	不不不，它只有4分钟长。
And I want to first rehearse with you your whistling.	我首先想和你们彩排一下你们的口哨声。
So I whistle the tone.	我吹一声。
Sorry. I forgot one thing.	对不起，我忘了一件事。
You whistle the same tone as me.	你们和我吹一个调。
I heard a wide variety of tones.	我听到了各种音调。
This is very promising.	这前景很好！
This is very promising.	这前景很好！
I'll ask the technicians to start the music.	我请技术人员放一下音乐。
And if it's started, I just point where you whistle along, and we will see what happens.	当音乐响起来时，我会指出你们在哪儿跟着吹， 我们一起来见证将会发生什么。
Oh, hah.	哦，呵呵，
I'm so sorry, technicians.	很抱歉，技术人员。
I'm so used to that.	我太习惯请技术人员帮助了。
I start it myself.	我自己来播放。
Okay, here it is.	好的，开始了。
Okay.	好的。
It's easy, isn't it?	这很简单，不是吗？
Now comes the solo. I propose I do that myself.	现在到了独奏部分。我打算自己来演绎。
Max Westerman: Geert Chatrou, the World Champion [of] Whistling.	马克思•威斯特曼：海尔特•查特尔，世界口哨冠军。
Geert Chatrou: Thank you. Thank you.	海尔特•查特尔：谢谢！谢谢！
I'm here to show you how something you can't see can be so much fun to look at.	我来给大家展示 认识我们看不到的东西是件多么有趣的事情。
You're about to experience a new, available and exciting technology that's going to make us rethink how we waterproof our lives.	你们马上要体验到一种全新的，已经可用的， 令人激动的科技如何能让我们的生活 保持干爽。
What I have here is a cinder block that we've coated half with a nanotechnology spray that can be applied to almost any material.	我这边有一块儿煤渣砖。 我们在它的半面喷上了纳米技术涂层。 这种涂层几乎可以在任何材料上使用。
It's called Ultra-Ever Dry, and when you apply it to any material, it turns into a superhydrophobic shield.	它叫做"极度干燥"。 当你把它用在任何材料上时， 它会变成一层超疏水保护层。
So this is a cinder block, uncoated, and you can see that it's porous, it absorbs water.	看煤渣砖这边没有涂保护层的地方， 大家可以看到水渗进去了。
Not anymore.	没有渗进去。
Porous, nonporous.	渗水，不渗水
So what's superhydrophobic?	那么什么是超疏水？
Superhydrophobic is how we measure a drop of water on a surface.	它是用来测量 一个表面上的水滴的。
The rounder it is, the more hydrophobic it is, and if it's really round, it's superhydrophobic.	水滴越圆，越疏水。 如果水滴非常圆的话，就叫超疏水了。
A freshly waxed car, the water molecules slump to about 90 degrees.	刚上过蜡的汽车，水分子与平面的接触角弧度 突降到大概90度。
A windshield coating is going to give you about 110 degrees.	一扇挡风玻璃涂层大概是110度。
But what you're seeing here is 160 to 175 degrees, and anything over 150 is superhydrophobic.	但是你看这边是160到175度之间 所有超过150度的都叫做超疏水。
So as part of the demonstration, what I have is a pair of gloves, and we've coated one of the gloves with the nanotechnology coating, and let's see if you can tell which one, and I'll give you a hint.	接下来的一个演示 我有一双手套 其中一只涂了 纳米科技涂层 看看大家能不能看出是哪一只 我来给你们一个提示。
Did you guess the one that was dry?	大家猜的是干的那只吗？
When you have nanotechnology and nanoscience, what's occurred is that we're able to now look at atoms and molecules and actually control them for great benefits.	当我们有了纳米科技和纳米科学， 我们现在就可以 了解原子和分子，让它们 造福人类。
And we're talking really small here.	我们在说非常小的东西
The way you measure nanotechnology is in nanometers, and one nanometer is a billionth of a meter, and to put some scale to that, if you had a nanoparticle that was one nanometer thick, and you put it side by side, and you had 50,000 of them, you'd be the width of a human hair.	我们用纳米单位来衡量纳米技术， 一纳米是十亿分之一米， 换句话说， 如果你有一个一纳米厚的纳米粒子， 把5万个这样的纳米粒子一个一个按顺序排起来， 它们的粗细就相当于一根头发。
So very small, but very useful.	所以，非常微小，但是却十分有用。
And it's not just water that this works with.	而且它不仅对水有作用
It's a lot of water-based materials like concrete, water-based paint, mud, and also some refined oils as well.	对很多水性材料也有作用，比如混凝土， 水彩画， 水泥， 和成品油。
You can see the difference.	大家看到差别了吧
Moving onto the next demonstration, we've taken a pane of glass and we've coated the outside of it, we've framed it with the nanotechnology coating, and we're going to pour this green-tinted water inside the middle, and you're going to see, it's going to spread out on glass like you'd normally think it would, except when it hits the coating, it stops, and I can't even coax it to leave.	来看下一个演示 我们这边有一片玻璃 我们用纳米技术把玻璃的边框封起来 然后我们把绿色的水倒到中间 大家会发现，水在玻璃上四散开来， 很正常的现象， 但是水在碰到疏水层的时候停下了， 我甚至都不能把水推到外面去。
It's that afraid of the water.	看它是多么怕水！
So what's going on here? What's happening?	那么究竟怎么回事？
Well, the surface of the spray coating is actually filled with nanoparticles that form a very rough and craggly surface.	其实，这个涂层的表面 覆盖着纳米粒子 让这个表面变得非常粗糙不平。
You'd think it'd be smooth, but it's actually not.	你可能以为它会很光滑，其实不是。
And it has billions of interstitial spaces, and those spaces, along with the nanoparticles, reach up and grab the air molecules, and cover the surface with air.	而且它有几十亿的空隙 这些空隙和纳米粒子一起 吸附空气分子 让表面覆盖上空气。
It's an umbrella of air all across it, and that layer of air is what the water hits, the mud hits, the concrete hits, and it glides right off.	这就形成了一层空气保护伞。 当水，水泥，混凝土 撞到这层空气时，它们就不会附着了。
So if I put this inside this water here, you can see a silver reflective coating around it, and that silver reflective coating is the layer of air that's protecting the water from touching the paddle, and it's dry.	如果我把这个桨放在水里， 大家会看到它上面的银色反光涂层 这层银色的反光涂层 就是防止水 弄湿桨的空气层。看，还是干的！
So what are the applications?	那么到底有什么用呢？
I mean, many of you right now are probably going through your head.	大部分人现在估计已经在绞尽脑汁了。
Everyone that sees this gets excited, and says, "Oh, I could use it for this and this and this."	每个看到这个兴奋的人都会说， "哦，我可以用它来做这，做那。"
The applications in a general sense could be anything that's anti-wetting.	最基本的应用 就是防水。
We've certainly seen that today.	我们今天已经看到了。
It could be anything that's anti-icing, because if you don't have water, you don't have ice.	它也可以用来防滑。 因为没有水，就没有冰。
It could be anti-corrosion.	它也可以用来防腐蚀。
No water, no corrosion.	没有水，就没有腐蚀。
It could be anti-bacterial.	也可以用来抗菌。
Without water, the bacteria won't survive.	没有水，细菌就不会存活。
And it could be things that need to be self-cleaning as well.	而且也可以用于任何需要保持自我清洁的东西。
So imagine how something like this could help revolutionize your field of work.	让我们来想象一下像这样的东西 会如何帮助改变大家自己的工作。
And I'm going to leave you with one last demonstration, but before I do that, I would like to say thank you, and think small.	接下来是今天最后一个演示 但是首先非常感谢大家， 请着眼小处！
It's going to happen. Wait for it. Wait for it.	结果会出来的，等一下，等一下，
You guys didn't hear about us cutting out the Design from TED?	主持人：大家没听说我们正换TED的设计呢吧？
[Two minutes later...] He ran into all sorts of problems in terms of managing the medical research part.	［两分钟后...］ 他在掌握药物研究方面经历了各种困难
It's happening!	结果出来了！
I want to talk to you today a little bit about predictable irrationality.	今日我想要稍微谈论 那些预知的非理性
And my interest in irrational behavior started many years ago in the hospital.	我对非理性的行为态度产生兴趣 从很多年以前开始，在一个医院里
I was burned very badly.	当时我严重烧伤
And if you spend a lot of time in hospital, you'll see a lot of types of irrationalities.	如果你在医院里待了很长时间 你将会看见许多不同类型的荒谬
And the one that particularly bothered me in the burn department was the process by which the nurses took the bandage off me.	在医院的烧烫伤部门让我最难以接受的荒谬 发生在护士为我拆除绷带的时候
Now, you must have all taken a Band-Aid off at some point, and you must have wondered what's the right approach.	每个人应该都有使用创可贴的经验 你也应该想过怎样撕掉才是最好的
Do you rip it off quickly -- short duration but high intensity -- or do you take your Band-Aid off slowly -- you take a long time, but each second is not as painful -- which one of those is the right approach?	你是瞬间撕开 － 时间短但很痛 还是慢慢地把它撕掉 虽然时间长，但感觉不这么痛 哪一种才是比较好的方式？
The nurses in my department thought that the right approach was the ripping one, so they would grab hold and they would rip, and they would grab hold and they would rip.	当时在我部门的护士认为一次快速的撕开才是正确的 她们紧抓，然后撕开 然后再紧抓，再撕开
And because I had 70 percent of my body burned, it would take about an hour.	当时我身体有百分之七十的烧伤，整个过程要一个小时
And as you can imagine, I hated that moment of ripping with incredible intensity.	你可以想象 我非常痛恨撕开绷带 极端痛苦的那刻
And I would try to reason with them and say, "Why don't we try something else?	我努力地想和她们讲理 "我们不能试试其他方法吗？
Why don't we take it a little longer -- maybe two hours instead of an hour -- and have less of this intensity?"	我们不能花长一点的时间 或许两个小时 － 让痛苦不要这么强烈？
And the nurses told me two things.	护士告诉我两件事
They told me that they had the right model of the patient -- that they knew what was the right thing to do to minimize my pain -- and they also told me that the word patient doesn't mean to make suggestions or to interfere or ...	她们告诉我她们知道什么对患者是最好的 她们知道如何减低我的痛苦 并且患者这个词的意思 不包括"提出建议"或"尝试干涉"
This is not just in Hebrew, by the way.	不只在希伯来文是如此
It's in every language I've had experience with so far.	几乎我目前遇见的所有语言都是如此
And, you know, there's not much -- there wasn't much I could do, and they kept on doing what they were doing.	于是我无能为力 她们继续她们的方法
And about three years later, when I left the hospital, I started studying at the university.	三年后，当我离开医院时 我开始在大学做研究
And one of the most interesting lessons I learned was that there is an experimental method that if you have a question you can create a replica of this question in some abstract way, and you can try to examine this question, maybe learn something about the world.	我在学校里学的最有趣的事情是 "实验法"的存在 你可以靠复制经验 来尝试找出解答 抽象地说，你可以试着检验你的问题 以尝试了解这个世界上的事情
So that's what I did.	于是我就这么做了
I was still interested in this question of how do you take bandages off burn patients.	我仍然对 如何撕开患者身上的绷带这个问题很有兴趣
So originally I didn't have much money, so I went to a hardware store and I bought a carpenter's vice.	刚开始我没有什么资金 我去五金行买了一个木匠用的老虎钳
And I would bring people to the lab and I would put their finger in it, and I would crunch it a little bit.	我把那些来到实验室的人的手指放到里面 然后"嘎吱"一下
And I would crunch it for long periods and short periods, and pain that went up and pain that went down, and with breaks and without breaks -- all kinds of versions of pain.	我会用较长的时间或较短的时间挤压 那些较为严重的痛 和较轻微的痛 有休息的 和没有休息的 － 许多不同种类的痛
And when I finished hurting people a little bit, I would ask them, so, how painful was this? Or, how painful was this?	当我结束伤害他们的时候，我会问 这样有多痛？那样又有多痛？
Or, if you had to choose between the last two, which one would you choose?	如果你可以从中选择一种的话 你会选择哪一种？
I kept on doing this for a while.	我这么做了一阵子
And then, like all good academic projects, I got more funding.	就像所有优秀的学术研究一样，我有更多资金
I moved to sounds, electrical shocks -- I even had a pain suit that I could get people to feel much more pain.	我开始加入声波，电击 我甚至制作了一件"疼痛服"让人们能感受到更多痛楚
But at the end of this process, what I learned was that the nurses were wrong.	但在研究结束后 我发觉护士们是错的
Here were wonderful people with good intentions and plenty of experience, and nevertheless they were getting things wrong predictably all the time.	虽然她们都是善良的人 经验丰富，但就算如此 她们的观念仍然是错误的
It turns out that because we don't encode duration in the way that we encode intensity, I would have had less pain if the duration would have been longer and the intensity was lower.	因为在我们测量痛楚时 我们并没有考虑到延续性 如果把时间拉长 我的痛楚就会减低
It turns out it would have been better to start with my face, which was much more painful, and move toward my legs, giving me a trend of improvement over time -- that would have been also less painful.	最好的方法是从最痛的脸部开始 再逐渐地往腿部下移 让我有一种逐渐减缓的感觉 这样也能减低我的痛苦
And it also turns out that it would have been good to give me breaks in the middle to kind of recuperate from the pain.	如果我可以在过程中稍作休息 让我有一些时间从痛楚中恢复
All of these would have been great things to do, and my nurses had no idea.	这所有的方法都能改善我当时的情况 但这些护士却毫无所悉
And from that point on I started thinking, are the nurses the only people in the world who get things wrong in this particular decision, or is it a more general case?	从那时我开始想 这些护士是全世界唯一有这种错误认知的人 在这件特别的事情上，还是这其实是一种普遍现象？
And it turns out it's a more general case -- there's a lot of mistakes we do.	于是我发现 其实这是一个普遍现象 我们时常犯下这样的错误
And I want to give you one example of one of these irrationalities, and I want to talk to you about cheating.	在这里我想以作弊作为例子 来讨论这些非理性
And the reason I picked cheating is because it's interesting, but also it tells us something, I think, about the stock market situation we're in.	我选择作弊的原因是因为它很有趣 也因为它也为我们现在股市的现状 提供了一些线索
So, my interest in cheating started when Enron came on the scene, exploded all of a sudden, and I started thinking about what is happening here.	我对作弊的兴趣从 美国安然公司突然爆发丑闻开始 我开始思考究竟发生了什么事情
Is it the case that there was kind of a few apples who are capable of doing these things, or are we talking a more endemic situation, that many people are actually capable of behaving this way?	难道这是来自一些 害群之马才能犯下的例子 还是一种地方性的现象 许多人都抱持着这样的态度？
So, like we usually do, I decided to do a simple experiment.	于是，我们决定故技重施，进行一些简单的试验
And here's how it went.	我们是这样做的
If you were in the experiment, I would pass you a sheet of paper with 20 simple math problems that everybody could solve, but I wouldn't give you enough time.	如果你参加了这个实验，我会给你一张纸 上面有二十个人人能解决的简单数学问题 但我不会给你足够的时间
When the five minutes were over, I would say, "Pass me the sheets of paper, and I'll pay you a dollar per question."	当五分钟到了以后，我会说 "把纸交给我，答对一题我就给你一块钱。"
People did this. I would pay people four dollars for their task -- on average people would solve four problems.	人们这么做了。我付他们四块 平均来说，人可以解决四个问题
Other people I would tempt to cheat.	我尝试引诱其中一些人作弊
I would pass their sheet of paper.	我会给他们一张纸
When the five minutes were over, I would say, "Please shred the piece of paper.	五分钟到了以后，我会说 "请将那张纸撕碎
Put the little pieces in your pocket or in your backpack, and tell me how many questions you got correctly."	把碎片放在口袋或是背包里， 然后告诉我你答对了几题。"
People now solved seven questions on average.	平均突然从四题变成了七题
Now, it wasn't as if there was a few bad apples -- a few people cheated a lot.	不是有几个害群之马 -- 换句话说，一小群人作很大的弊
Instead, what we saw is a lot of people who cheat a little bit.	而是一大群人作一些小弊
Now, in economic theory, cheating is a very simple cost-benefit analysis.	在经济学理论上 作弊是一种非常简单的成本效益分析
You say, what's the probability of being caught?	被抓到的可能性有多高？
How much do I stand to gain from cheating?	我作弊的好处有多少？
And how much punishment would I get if I get caught?	被抓到会有怎样的惩罚？
And you weigh these options out -- you do the simple cost-benefit analysis, and you decide whether it's worthwhile to commit the crime or not.	你衡量这些选项 一个简单的成本效益分析 然后决定是否值得犯下罪行
So, we try to test this.	我们对此进行一些测验
For some people, we varied how much money they could get away with -- how much money they could steal.	我们开始给他们不同数目的金钱 他们所能偷窃的数目
We paid them 10 cents per correct question, 50 cents, a dollar, five dollars, 10 dollars per correct question.	我们给他们十分钱，五十分 一块钱，五块钱，到十块钱一个问题
You would expect that as the amount of money on the table increases, people would cheat more, but in fact it wasn't the case.	你预估当桌上的钱增多时 人们也更愿意作弊。但事实上却不是
We got a lot of people cheating by stealing by a little bit.	仍有许多人为了很少的金钱作弊
What about the probability of being caught?	那难道是被抓到的可能性吗？
Some people shredded half the sheet of paper, so there was some evidence left.	有些人只撕了半张纸 还有些证据留下
Some people shredded the whole sheet of paper.	有些人撕碎了整张纸
Some people shredded everything, went out of the room, and paid themselves from the bowl of money that had over 100 dollars.	有些人彻底撕碎了全部，走出房间 然后从放有超过百元美金的碗里拿走钱
You would expect that as the probability of being caught goes down, people would cheat more, but again, this was not the case.	你会预估当被抓的可能性降低 人们作弊的几率便会提升，但却不是如此
Again, a lot of people cheated by just by a little bit, and they were insensitive to these economic incentives.	又一次地，许多人作了一些小弊 人们并没被这些经济学所说的诱因影响
So we said, "If people are not sensitive to the economic rational theory explanations, to these forces, what could be going on?"	我们想"如果这些符合经济学逻辑的解答 这些原因，对人们不造成影响 那么究竟发生了什么事？"
And we thought maybe what is happening is that there are two forces.	于是我们想，或许有两种力量
At one hand, we all want to look at ourselves in the mirror and feel good about ourselves, so we don't want to cheat.	一方面，我们都有自省的能力 都希望对自己感觉良好，所以我们不想作弊
On the other hand, we can cheat a little bit, and still feel good about ourselves.	另一方面，我们作一点小弊 在还能对自己感觉良好的范围里
So, maybe what is happening is that there's a level of cheating we can't go over, but we can still benefit from cheating at a low degree, as long as it doesn't change our impressions about ourselves.	所以或许 我们心中有一种不能跨越的尺度 但我们仍然能从一些小奸小恶中获利 只要不要让我们自己感到不齿
We call this like a personal fudge factor.	我们说这叫"自我蒙混因素"
Now, how would you test a personal fudge factor?	但我们该如何测试自我蒙混因素呢？
Initially we said, what can we do to shrink the fudge factor?	刚开始我们说，我们该怎么做来降低蒙混因素呢？
So, we got people to the lab, and we said, "We have two tasks for you today."	当人们进入实验室时，我们说 "今日我们要给你两个任务。"
First, we asked half the people to recall either 10 books they read in high school, or to recall The Ten Commandments, and then we tempted them with cheating.	第一，我们问其中一半的人 回想十本他们在高中所看过的书 或是回忆圣经中的十诫 然后我们尝试让他们作弊。
Turns out the people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments -- and in our sample nobody could recall all of The Ten Commandments -- but those people who tried to recall The Ten Commandments, given the opportunity to cheat, did not cheat at all.	我们发觉那些尝试回想十诫的人 虽然在我们的标本中没有任何人能完整背诵出十诫 但那些尝试回想圣经十诫的人 面对作弊的可能性，却没有作弊
It wasn't that the more religious people -- the people who remembered more of the Commandments -- cheated less, and the less religious people -- the people who couldn't remember almost any Commandments -- cheated more.	那并不代表对宗教信仰比较虔诚的人 那些能背诵出较多十诫的人，比较少作弊 或那些对宗教信仰比较不虔诚的人 那些无法回忆出任何一诫的人 比较会作弊
The moment people thought about trying to recall The Ten Commandments, they stopped cheating.	在人们尝试回想十诫的那一刻 他们便不作弊了
In fact, even when we gave self-declared atheists the task of swearing on the Bible and we give them a chance to cheat, they don't cheat at all.	事实上，就算我们让那些自称是无神论的人 把手放在圣经上发誓，然后再给他们作弊的机会 他们也仍然没有作弊
Now, Ten Commandments is something that is hard to bring into the education system, so we said, "Why don't we get people to sign the honor code?"	要把圣经十诫带进教育系统里 是一件困难的事，所以我们说 "不然我们让人们在荣誉行为准则上签名吧？"
So, we got people to sign, "I understand that this short survey falls under the MIT Honor Code."	于是，我们让他们签名， "我认知这份简短调查遵行麻省理工学院的荣誉准则"
Then they shredded it. No cheating whatsoever.	然后把它撕碎。没有任何人作弊
And this is particularly interesting, because MIT doesn't have an honor code.	这真是非常有趣 因为麻省理工学院根本没有任何荣誉准则
So, all this was about decreasing the fudge factor.	这是有关降低蒙混因素的
What about increasing the fudge factor?	又如何提高蒙混因素呢？
The first experiment -- I walked around MIT and I distributed six-packs of Cokes in the refrigerators -- these were common refrigerators for the undergrads.	第一个实验中 我在麻省理工学院游走 我把半打可乐放进不同的冰箱中 都是些给大学生的普通冰箱
And I came back to measure what we technically call the half-lifetime of Coke -- how long does it last in the refrigerators?	然后再回去测量我们所说的 可乐的人生周期 - 它们能在冰箱里留多久？
As you can expect it doesn't last very long; people take it.	你可以想象那并没有多久。人们拿走它们。
In contrast, I took a plate with six one-dollar bills, and I left those plates in the same refrigerators.	相对的，我把一个装着六章一块钱美金钞票的盘子 放进那些同样的冰箱
No bill ever disappeared.	没有任何一张美金被拿走
Now, this is not a good social science experiment, so to do it better I did the same experiment as I described to you before.	这大概不是一个好的社会科学实验 为了改善我再做了一次一样的实验 就像我和诸位形容的一样
A third of the people we passed the sheet, they gave it back to us.	三分之一的人把试验纸交会给我们
A third of the people we passed it to, they shredded it, they came to us and said, "Mr. Experimenter, I solved X problems. Give me X dollars."	三分之一的人把纸撕碎 他们跟我们说 "先生，我解决了几个问题，给我几块钱。"
A third of the people, when they finished shredding the piece of paper, they came to us and said, "Mr Experimenter, I solved X problems. Give me X tokens."	三分之一的人，在他们把纸撕碎以后 他们跟我们说 "先生，我解决了几个问题，给我几个代币。"
We did not pay them with dollars; we paid them with something else.	我们没有付他们现金，而是一些其他的代替品
And then they took the something else, they walked 12 feet to the side, and exchanged it for dollars.	他们拿着这些代替品，走到十二英尺远的旁边 再把代替品换成现金
Think about the following intuition.	试着想想以下的假设状况
How bad would you feel about taking a pencil from work home, compared to how bad would you feel about taking 10 cents from a petty cash box?	从公司拿一支铅笔 或是从公司钱柜里拿走十分钱 哪一种感觉比较差？
These things feel very differently.	这些事给人的感觉差异很大
Would being a step removed from cash for a few seconds by being paid by token make a difference?	把现金移动到稍为远一点的地方，改拿代币 能不能造成什么差异？
Our subjects doubled their cheating.	我们实验对象的作弊情况提高了两倍
I'll tell you what I think about this and the stock market in a minute.	稍后我会告诉你 这些例子和股市有什么关联
But this did not solve the big problem I had with Enron yet, because in Enron, there's also a social element.	但这仍然无法解决我对安然公司的疑问 因为在安然，还有一个社会性的元素
People see each other behaving.	人们眼见其他人的作为
In fact, every day when we open the news we see examples of people cheating.	事实上，每天我们看新闻 都能看到人们作弊欺骗的例子
What does this cause us?	这怎么影响我们？
So, we did another experiment.	所以，我们又做了另一个实验
We got a big group of students to be in the experiment, and we prepaid them.	我们召来一大群学生来参加实验 我们先付他们钱
So everybody got an envelope with all the money for the experiment, and we told them that at the end, we asked them to pay us back the money they didn't make. OK?	所以每个人都先拿到装着实验回馈的信封 在结束时，我们请他们 把没有赚到的钱还给我们
The same thing happens.	同样的事情发生了
When we give people the opportunity to cheat, they cheat.	当我们给人们作弊的机会，他们作弊了
They cheat just by a little bit, all the same.	他们只作了一点小弊，但都一样
But in this experiment we also hired an acting student.	但这次我们请来一位学生演员
This acting student stood up after 30 seconds, and said, "I solved everything. What do I do now?"	这个学生演员在三十秒后站起来，说 "我解开所有题目了，现在呢？"
And the experimenter said, "If you've finished everything, go home.	实验者则回答"如果你做完所有题目了，就回去吧。"
That's it. The task is finished."	就这样。任务结束了。
So, now we had a student -- an acting student -- that was a part of the group.	所以现在我们有了一个学生 - 一个演员 在这组人中
Nobody knew it was an actor.	没有人知道他是个演员
And they clearly cheated in a very, very serious way.	只知道他明目张胆的作弊
What would happen to the other people in the group?	这会对在场的其他人有什么影响？
Will they cheat more, or will they cheat less?	他们会作更多的弊，或是相反？
Here is what happens.	事情是这样发生的。
It turns out it depends on what kind of sweatshirt they're wearing.	结果是，那取决于他们身上穿的衣服
Here is the thing.	因为
We ran this at Carnegie Mellon and Pittsburgh.	我们在卡内基梅隆和匹兹堡大学进行这次实验
And at Pittsburgh there are two big universities, Carnegie Mellon and University of Pittsburgh.	在匹兹堡有两家主要的大学 卡内基梅隆和匹兹堡大学
All of the subjects sitting in the experiment were Carnegie Mellon students.	而我们的实验对象 都是卡内基梅隆大学的学生
When the actor who was getting up was a Carnegie Mellon student -- he was actually a Carnegie Mellon student -- but he was a part of their group, cheating went up.	当站起来的演员穿着卡内基梅隆的衣服 他其实也是个卡内基梅隆的学生 也就是说他是团队中的一员，作弊的情况增加了
But when he actually had a University of Pittsburgh sweatshirt, cheating went down.	但当他穿着一件匹兹堡大学的外衣时 作弊的情况便减少了
Now, this is important, because remember, when the moment the student stood up, it made it clear to everybody that they could get away with cheating, because the experimenter said, "You've finished everything. Go home," and they went with the money.	这是很重要的一点，因为记住 在这个学生站起来的那一刻 他对在场所有人证明作弊是可行的 因为实验者说 "你做完所有题目了，回去吧。"他们就带着钱回去了
So it wasn't so much about the probability of being caught again.	所以这和被抓到的几率无关
It was about the norms for cheating.	而是一种作弊的典范
If somebody from our in-group cheats and we see them cheating, we feel it's more appropriate, as a group, to behave this way.	如果在我们的团队中有人作弊，我们也看到他们作弊 我们便觉得那是适当的，身为一个团队，有这一样的态度
But if it's somebody from another group, these terrible people -- I mean, not terrible in this -- but somebody we don't want to associate ourselves with, from another university, another group, all of a sudden people's awareness of honesty goes up -- a little bit like The Ten Commandments experiment -- and people cheat even less.	但如果是个外人，那些糟糕的人 不是说他们做题做的不好 而是那些我们不想被当成一丘之貉的人 那些其他学校的，其他团体的 突然人们的诚实和警觉性都提高了 有点类似之前的圣经十诫实验 作弊的情况更加降低了。
So, what have we learned from this about cheating?	所以，我们究竟从这些实验中学到了什么？
We've learned that a lot of people can cheat.	我们知道许多人都会作弊
They cheat just by a little bit.	他们作一点点小弊
When we remind people about their morality, they cheat less.	当我们唤起人们的道德感，作弊的情况减少
When we get bigger distance from cheating, from the object of money, for example, people cheat more.	当我们提高和作弊之中的距离 像是现金，作弊的情况便提高
And when we see cheating around us, particularly if it's a part of our in-group, cheating goes up.	当我们看到身边的人作弊 尤其是我们的同侪，作弊的情况便提高
Now, if we think about this in terms of the stock market, think about what happens.	当我们想到股市的时候 想到现在发生的事情
What happens in a situation when you create something where you pay people a lot of money to see reality in a slightly distorted way?	当你创造了这个环境 你付他们很多的钱 扭曲了他们对现实的看法？
Would they not be able to see it this way?	他们能不这么看吗？
Of course they would.	当然他们会这样做。
What happens when you do other things, like you remove things from money?	当你又做了一些其他的事情 像是用一些东西代替现金？
You call them stock, or stock options, derivatives, mortgage-backed securities.	你叫他们股票，或是选择权，衍生商品 按揭证券
Could it be that with those more distant things, it's not a token for one second, it's something that is many steps removed from money for a much longer time -- could it be that people will cheat even more?	有没有可能因为这些东西听来遥远 它不只是一个几秒外的代币 而是离现金有一段距离的象征物 冠以更长的时间 - 人们是否会更容易作弊？
And what happens to the social environment when people see other people behave around them?	在今日的社会环境中，人们看到他人的行为时 又会有什么影响和反应？
I think all of those forces worked in a very bad way in the stock market.	这全都是一些很不好的因素和影响 在今日的股市中
More generally, I want to tell you something about behavioral economics.	我想泛泛地谈一些 有关行为经济学的事
We have many intuitions in our life, and the point is that many of these intuitions are wrong.	在人生中我们有许多直觉 却有许多是错误的
The question is, are we going to test those intuitions?	问题是，我们该去检视这些直觉吗？
We can think about how we're going to test this intuition in our private life, in our business life, and most particularly when it goes to policy, when we think about things like No Child Left Behind, when you create new stock markets, when you create other policies -- taxation, health care and so on.	我们可以思考我们该如何去检视这些直觉 从我们的私生活，我们的公事 特别是制定政策的时候 当我们想到一些像"一个都不能少"这种教育政策 当你开发一些新的股票市场，当你制定一些新的政策 税法，健康保险等
And the difficulty of testing our intuition was the big lesson I learned when I went back to the nurses to talk to them.	检测直觉是非常困难的 这是在我回去和这些护士谈话时 学到的一个教训。
So I went back to talk to them and tell them what I found out about removing bandages.	我回到当初的医院 告诉他们对于撕开绷带方法的新发现
And I learned two interesting things.	我学到两件有趣的事
One was that my favorite nurse, Ettie, told me that I did not take her pain into consideration.	一是我最喜欢的护士，Ettie 告诉我我并没有考虑到她的痛苦
She said, "Of course, you know, it was very painful for you.	她说"当然，那对你来说很痛苦
But think about me as a nurse, taking, removing the bandages of somebody I liked, and had to do it repeatedly over a long period of time.	但想想身为护士的我 要从一个我喜欢的人身上撕开这些绷带 并且要长期不断地重复这个动作
Creating so much torture was not something that was good for me, too."	我也不想为自己带来这么大的折磨，那也并不好受。"
And she said maybe part of the reason was it was difficult for her.	她说，或许对她来说如此困难是因为
But it was actually more interesting than that, because she said, "I did not think that your intuition was right.	这实在非常有趣，因为她说 "我不觉得你的直觉是对的
I felt my intuition was correct."	我觉得我的直觉才是对的。"
So, if you think about all of your intuitions, it's very hard to believe that your intuition is wrong.	所以，当想到我们的那些直觉时 要相信自己的直觉是错误的是非常困难的。
And she said, "Given the fact that I thought my intuition was right ..." -- she thought her intuition was right -- it was very difficult for her to accept doing a difficult experiment to try and check whether she was wrong.	她说，正因为我认为我的直觉是对的 她也认为她的直觉是正确的 她很难接受这样去做一个艰难的实验 来证明她是对或错。
But in fact, this is the situation we're all in all the time.	但事实上，这正是我们每日面对的状况
We have very strong intuitions about all kinds of things -- our own ability, how the economy works, how we should pay school teachers.	对许多事我们都有很强的直觉 我们自己的能力，经济运作的方式 我们应该付给学校老师多少薪水
But unless we start testing those intuitions, we're not going to do better.	但在我们真正开始去检测这些直觉前 我们都不会有什么进步
And just think about how better my life would have been if these nurses would have been willing to check their intuition, and how everything would have been better if we just start doing more systematic experimentation of our intuitions.	只要想想如果那些护士能检测自己的直觉 我的人生会有多大的改善 每件事又会有多大的改善 如果我们能开始有系统性地测验我们的直觉
Thank you very much.	非常谢谢各位。
In this talk today, I want to present a different idea for why investing in early childhood education makes sense as a public investment.	在今天的演讲里，我想陈述一个不同的观点 关于为什么投资儿童的学龄前教育 可以被看做为一种公共投资。
It's a different idea, because usually, when people talk about early childhood programs, they talk about all the wonderful benefits for participants in terms of former participants, in preschool, they have better K-12 test scores, better adult earnings.	这是一个不同的观点，因为经常 人们谈论儿童学龄前教育方案时 他们探讨的是接受了学前教育的孩子是否 比没有接受学前教育的孩子做得更好 他们从小学到高中有更好的成绩 成年之后有更高的收入。
Now that's all very important, but what I want to talk about is what preschool does for state economies and for promoting state economic development.	的确这些都很重要 但我想讨论的是学前教育如何影响 各州的经济 并且促进各州的经济发展。
And that's actually crucial because if we're going to get increased investment in early childhood programs, we need to interest state governments in this.	这其实是很关键的 因为如果我们想要提高对 儿童学龄前教育计划的投资 我们就需要各州政府对它感兴趣。
The federal government has a lot on its plate, and state governments are going to have to step up.	联邦政府有很多问题需要解决 所以各州政府需要向前迈一步。
So we have to appeal to them, the legislators in the state government, and turn to something they understand, that they have to promote the economic development of their state economy.	于是我们需要呼吁他们 各州的立法者们 并且转换成他们理解的东西 他们需要促进他们州的 经济发展。
Now, by promoting economic development, I don't mean anything magical.	我所说的促进经济发展 并不是什么神奇的东西。
All I mean is, is that early childhood education can bring more and better jobs to a state and can thereby promote higher per capita earnings for the state's residents.	我只是想说明，儿童学龄前教育 可以为各州带来更多与更好的工作 也因此能够提高各州居民的 人均收入。
Now, I think it's fair to say that when people think about state and local economic development, they don't generally think first about what they're doing about childcare and early childhood programs.	现在，我认为一般人在谈及 各个州和地方经济发展时 他们大多不会想到这会跟当地的 儿童看护和早教计划有什么关系。
I know this. I've spent most of my career researching these programs.	而我了解，我的整个职业生涯都在研究这些计划
I've talked to a lot of directors of state economic development agencies about these issues, a lot of legislators about these issues.	我与很多州际经济发展机构负责人 讨论过这些问题 也与许多立法者讨论过。
When legislators and others think about economic development, what they first of all think about are business tax incentives, property tax abatements, job creation tax credits, you know, there are a million of these programs all over the place.	当立法者和其他人思考关于经济发展时 他们首先想到营业税优惠政策 减免财产税， 创造就业机会税收抵免 正如你所知，这类计划多到数不清
So for example, states compete very vigorously to attract new auto plants or expanded auto plants.	例如，各州对在吸引新建汽车厂 或扩展汽车厂项目上竞争非常激烈。
They hand out all kinds of business tax breaks.	他们给予各种各样的营业税减免政策。
Now, those programs can make sense if they in fact induce new location decisions, and the way they can make sense is, by creating more and better jobs, they raise employment rates, raise per capita earnings of state residents.	这些计划能够达到预期效果 取决于他们是否吸引了新的制造厂来到本地 而吸引投资和制造业的目的 就是创造更多与更好的工作， 提高就业率，提高居民人均收入。
So there is a benefit to state residents that corresponds to the costs that they're paying by paying for these business tax breaks.	这对于当地的居民是有好处的 虽然他们也需要付出一些代价 他们需要承担那些减免的营业税
My argument is essentially that early childhood programs can do exactly the same thing, create more and better jobs, but in a different way.	我的观点是儿童学龄前教育在本质上 可以达到一样的效果 创造更多更好的工作，但用另外一种方法
It's a somewhat more indirect way.	这是一个间接的方法
These programs can promote more and better jobs by, you build it, you invest in high-quality preschool, it develops the skills of your local workforce if enough of them stick around, and, in turn, that higher-quality local workforce will be a key driver of creating jobs and creating higher earnings per capita in the local community.	这些计划可以带来更多更好的工作 如果我们投资建立高质量的学前教育 它会提高当地劳动力的技能 如果这些孩子们有足够的人留在当地 那么这些更高质量的劳动人口 将会成为当地创造新的工作机会的主力 并成为提高当地社区人均收入水平的中坚力量。
Now, let me turn to some numbers on this.	接下来让我给你们展示一些具体的数据。
Okay. If you look at the research evidence -- that's extensive -- on how much early childhood programs affect the educational attainment, wages and skills of former participants in preschool as adults, you take those known effects, you take how many of those folks will be expected to stick around the state or local economy and not move out, and you take research on how much skills drive job creation, you will conclude, from these three separate lines of research, that for every dollar invested in early childhood programs, the per capita earnings of state residents go up by two dollars and 78 cents, so that's a three-to-one return.	如果你翻阅研究资料—— 这方面的研究已经很多——关于学龄前教育计划 如何对参加过学龄前教育的人的 教育程度，薪水和技能的影响， 我们把这些影响综合起来， 估算一下接受学前教育的人有多少大的比例 会留在当地的经济圈中，没有搬走 再考虑到通过学龄前教育提高的劳动技能 促进创造了多少就业机会，你就会得出结论， 这三个不同方向的研究结果表明 在儿童早教计划中每投入一美元 会对各州居民的人均收入 增加2美金78美分 所以这是三比一的回报率
Now you can get much higher returns, of up to 16-to-one, if you include anti-crime benefits, if you include benefits to former preschool participants who move to some other state, but there's a good reason for focusing on these three dollars because this is salient and important to state legislators and state policy makers, and it's the states that are going to have to act.	你可以得到更高的回报率 高达十六比一，如果你把社会治安的改进也考虑进来， 并且把接受过学龄前教育，但是后来 搬出去的人的收益也算在内的话。 但是现在我们把注意力放在这三美元上 因为这三个方面对于州立法者 和州政策制定者而言是最重要的 而这也是让州政府行动起来的理由。
So there is this key benefit that is relevant to state policy makers in terms of economic development.	所以对于各州的政策制定者而言 这将是一项对本州经济意义重大的举措。
Now, one objection you often hear, or maybe you don't hear it because people are too polite to say it, is, why should I pay more taxes to invest in other people's children?	你可能听说过一些反对意见 或许你没有听说过因为人们不好意思说出来 就是为什么我需要付更多的税 去为别人孩子的教育投资
What's in it for me?	我得到了什么？
And the trouble with that objection, it reflects a total misunderstanding of how much local economies involve everyone being interdependent.	这个异议的问题在于 它显示了人们的误解， 地方经济需要 每一个人的参与
Specifically, the interdependency here is, is that there are huge spillovers of skills -- that when other people's children get more skills, that actually increases the prosperity of everyone, including people whose skills don't change.	特别在这里他们是相互关联的 有大量的技术外溢效应 当其他人的孩子得到了更多的技术 实际上这样会让每个人更富有 包括了那些技术没有提高的人们
So for example, numerous research studies have shown if you look at what really drives the growth rate of metropolitan areas, it's not so much low taxes, low cost, low wages; it's the skills of the area. Particularly, the proxy for skills that people use is percentage of college graduates in the area.	举个例子，众多的研究显示 如果你查看到底是什么驱动着 都市地区的增长率 并不是低税率，低成本，低工资 是这个地区的技术。特别是 当地高校毕业生的比例
So when you look, for example, at metropolitan areas such as the Boston area, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Silicon Valley, these areas are not doing well economically because they're low-cost.	所以当你看一些都市地区 比如波士顿，明尼阿波利斯 - 圣保罗 硅谷，这些地区经济发展良好 并不是因为它们成本很低
I don't know if you ever tried to buy a house in Silicon Valley.	我不知道你有没有尝试过在硅谷买房子
It's not exactly a low-cost proposition.	并不是一个低成本的投资。
They are growing because they have high levels of skills.	它们在发展因为他们有高水准的技能
So when we invest in other people's children, and build up those skills, we increase the overall job growth of a metro area.	所以当我们为别人的孩子投资 并且建立那些技能，我们提高了一个区域的 总体职业增长
As another example, if we look at what determines an individual's wages, and we do statistical exploration of that, what determines wages, we know that the individual's wages will depend, in part, on that individual's education, for example whether or not they have a college degree.	举另一个例子，如果我们看 是什么决定了一个人的工资 我们对此进行数据分析，是什么决定了工资 我们知道一个人的工资一部分取决于 这个人的教育 比如有没有接受过本科教育
One of the very interesting facts is that, in addition, we find that even once we hold constant, statistically, the effect of your own education, the education of everyone else in your metropolitan area also affects your wages.	另外一个非常有趣的事实是 我们发现就算我们在数据上 将你的教育程度对工资的影响保持不变 在都市区里其他人的教育 也会对你的工资产生影响
So specifically, if you hold constant your education, you stick in percentage of college graduates in your metro area, you will find that has a significant positive effect on your wages without changing your education at all.	具体一些，如果你将你的教育保持不变 把当地的本科生比例加进去 你会发现它对你的工资有明显的改善 而完全不需要改变你的受教育程度
In fact, this effect is so strong that when someone gets a college degree, the spillover effects of this on the wages of others in the metropolitan area are actually greater than the direct effects.	事实上，这个影响强烈到 当一个人获得了本科教育 它对于在大都市地区其他人 工资的溢出效应 实际大于直接影响
So if someone gets a college degree, their lifetime earnings go up by a huge amount, over 700,000 dollars.	所以如果一个人获得了本科教育，他有生之年的收入 将会增加超过700,000美金
There's an effect on everyone else in the metro area of driving up the percentage of college graduates in the metro area, and if you add that up -- it's a small effect for each person, but if you add that up across all the people in the metro area, you actually get that the increase in wages for everyone else in the metropolitan area adds up to almost a million dollars.	增加都市地区的高校毕业生比例 对当地的人们都会产生影响 并且如果你把他们加起来 - 这是对每个人的小影响 但是如果你把整个都市地区的人们加起来 实际上每个人得到了薪水的提升 在都市地区增加了近百万美金
That's actually greater than the direct benefits of the person choosing to get education.	这实际上是大于选择接受高等教育的人 所带来的直接效益
Now, what's going on here?	现在，这是怎么回事呢？
What can explain these huge spillover effects of education?	什么可以解释教育所带来的的巨大溢出效应？
Well, let's think about it this way.	那么，让我们这样想
I can be the most skilled person in the world, but if everyone else at my firm lacks skills, my employer is going to find it more difficult to introduce new technology, new production techniques.	我可以成为世界上技术能力最强的人 但是如果我的公司里的其他人缺乏技术 我的雇主会难以引进 新的技术，新的生产技术
So as a result, my employer is going to be less productive.	因而导致我的雇主降低生产率
They will not be able to afford to pay me as good wages.	他将无法支付我良好的工资
Even if everyone at my firm has good skills, if the workers at the suppliers to my firm do not have good skills, my firm is going to be less competitive competing in national and international markets.	就算在我公司里的每一个人有良好的技术 如果我的供应商的工人 没有良好的技术 在国内和国际市场竞争时 我的公司竞争力会降低
And again, the firm that's less competitive will not be able to pay as good wages, and then, particularly in high-tech businesses, they're constantly stealing ideas and workers from other businesses.	同样的，竞争力较弱的公司 将会没有能力支付更高的工资 并且，特别是在高技术公司中 他们会经常从别的公司窃取理念和工人
So clearly the productivity of firms in Silicon Valley has a lot to do with the skills not only of the workers at their firm, but the workers at all the other firms in the metro area.	所以很明确硅谷的生产率 不仅与公司职员的技巧有所关联 更与当地其他公司的员工相关
So as a result, if we can invest in other people's children through preschool and other early childhood programs that are high-quality, we not only help those children, we help everyone in the metropolitan area gain in wages and we'll have the metropolitan area gain in job growth.	因此，如果我们可以为他人的孩子投资 通过高质量的学前教育和其他儿童早期教育计划 我们不仅可以帮助那些孩子 我们还会帮助都市地区的每一个人 提高总体的工资，并且能够促进都市地区的 就业增长。
Another objection used sometimes here to invest in early childhood programs is concern about people moving out.	另一个常见的反对意见 是担心早期儿童教育计划的投资 会随着人们搬走而打水漂。
So, you know, maybe Ohio's thinking about investing in more preschool education for children in Columbus, Ohio, but they're worried that these little Buckeyes will, for some strange reason, decide to move to Ann Arbor, Michigan, and become Wolverines.	因此，可能俄亥俄州打算为自己州的 哥伦布市的孩子们 投资学前教育计划， 但是他们担心这些小朋友们将来可能 因为一些奇怪的原因，决定搬去密歇根州的安阿伯市 并且变成密歇根人。
And maybe Michigan will be thinking about investing in preschool in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and be worried these little Wolverines will end up moving to Ohio and becoming Buckeyes.	可能密歇根在想关于投资 密歇根州安阿伯市的幼儿教育，但他们也担心 这些密歇根人会最终搬到俄亥俄州然后变成俄州人
And so they'll both underinvest because everyone's going to move out.	最终他们都因为担心人们搬走而减少学前教育投入
Well, the reality is, if you look at the data, Americans aren't as hyper-mobile as people sometimes assume.	事实上如果我们翻阅一下统计数据就会发现 美国没有人们想象的那么喜爱搬家
The data is that over 60 percent of Americans spend most of their working careers in the state they were born in, over 60 percent.	数据显示百分之六十以上的美国人 大部分的职业生涯花在 他们出生的州，多余百分之六十
That percentage does not vary much from state to state.	这个比例在各州之间变化不大
It doesn't vary much with the state's economy, whether it's depressed or booming, it doesn't vary much over time.	这并不会受到各州经济形势的影响。 无论是萧条或是发展 随着时间的推移它并不会有很大的改变
So the reality is, if you invest in kids, they will stay.	所以现实是，如果你为孩子投资 他们会留下来
Or at least, enough of them will stay that it will pay off for your state economy.	至少会有足够多的人留下来 为当地的经济发展做出贡献。
Okay, so to sum up, there is a lot of research evidence that early childhood programs, if run in a high-quality way, pay off in higher adult skills.	好的，总结一下，有很多的研究证据表明 为高质量的学龄前教育投入，能够通过 提高成年劳动技能的方式得到补偿。
There's a lot of research evidence that those folks will stick around the state economy, and there's a lot of evidence that having more workers with higher skills in your local economy pays off in higher wages and job growth for your local economy, and if you calculate the numbers for each dollar, we get about three dollars back in benefits for the state economy.	有很多的研究结果表明 这些人会留在州经济圈中 并且有很多证据表明在地区经济中 高技能劳动者数量的增加 能够提高平均工资，促进就业增长 并且我们计算得到每多投入一美元 就能够为当地经济 多贡献三美元的收益。
So in my opinion, the research evidence is compelling and the logic of this is compelling.	所以在我看来，这些研究成果是令人信服的 并且这个逻辑是有说服力的
So what are the barriers to getting it done?	那么有哪些障碍阻止我们去做这些事情？
Well, one obvious barrier is cost.	嗯，一个明显的障碍就是费用
So if you look at what it would cost if every state government invested in universal preschool at age four, full-day preschool at age four, the total annual national cost would be roughly 30 billion dollars.	我们估算了所需要投入的总额 如果各州政府都参与投资 从4岁开始普及幼儿园，全日制幼儿园 每年全国总共的花销大约是 300亿美金
So, 30 billion dollars is a lot of money.	那么，300亿美金是很大一笔资金
On the other hand, if you reflect on that the U.S.'s population is over 300 million, we're talking about an amount of money that amounts to 100 dollars per capita.	可是，如果你思考一下 美国有3亿人口 那么这笔投资平摊到每个人头上 人均只需要承担100美金
Okay? A hundred dollars per capita, per person, is something that any state government can afford to do.	清楚了么？每人一百美金， 每一个州政府都有能力做到
It's just a simple matter of political will to do it.	这只是政府会不会去做的问题
And, of course, as I mentioned, this cost has corresponding benefits.	当然，就如同我所说过的 这个支出有相对应的收益
I mentioned there's a multiplier of about three, 2.78, for the state economy, in terms of over 80 billion in extra earnings.	我提过这有一个大约1比3的回报率 2.78，对于州政府来说 代表着800亿美金的额外收入
And if we want to translate that from just billions of dollars to something that might mean something, what we're talking about is that, for the average low-income kid, that would increase earnings by about 10 percent over their whole career, just doing the preschool, not improving K-12 or anything else after that, not doing anything with college tuition or access, just directly improving preschool, and we would get five percent higher earnings for middle-class kids.	如果我们想把上百亿的美金转化成 一些有意义的事情 那么我可以告诉你，仅仅通过提高学龄前教育的质量， 不需要对K-12（大学前教育）作任何的改动 不需要对大学做任何的改造 就能够使低收入家庭背景的孩子 在成年后的总收入提高10% 并能够为来自中等收入家庭的孩子 将他们的平均薪水 提高5%。
So this is an investment that pays off in very concrete terms for a broad range of income groups in the state's population and produces large and tangible benefits.	所以这是一个投资 有非常实际的回报 能够为各州不同收入层次的人群 产生实实在在的利益
Now, that's one barrier.	现在，这里有一个障碍
I actually think the more profound barrier is the long-term nature of the benefits from early childhood programs.	我觉得更严重的障碍 是学龄前教育计划回报的长期性特点
So the argument I'm making is, is that we're increasing the quality of our local workforce, and thereby increasing economic development.	所以，我的论点是我们提高 当地劳动力的水平 将会提高地方经济
Obviously if we have a preschool with four-year-olds, we're not sending these kids out at age five to work in the sweatshops, right? At least I hope not.	显然如果我们把4岁的孩子送到幼儿园 我们不会让这些孩子在5岁时 送去糖果店工作，对吧？至少我希望如此
So we're talking about an investment that in terms of impacts on the state economy is not going to really pay off for 15 or 20 years, and of course America is notorious for being a short term-oriented society.	所以我们在谈论一个投资 对各州经济的影响 在15到20年以内是不会体现出来的 并且美国是众所周知的 短期性社会
Now one response you can make to this, and I sometimes have done this in talks, is people can talk about, there are benefits for these programs in reducing special ed and remedial education costs, there are benefits, parents care about preschool, maybe we'll get some migration effects from parents seeking good preschool, and I think those are true, but in some sense they're missing the point.	现在你可以对此作出的一个回应 并且我有时会在谈论时这么做 人们可以讨论关于这些计划所带来的好处 在减低特殊教育和补习教育成本 家长们关心学龄前教育 也许我们会得到一些迁移效果 让家长们寻找好的幼儿园 我觉得这是正确的 但是在某种意义上他们忽略了重点
Ultimately, this is something we're investing in now for the future.	归根结底，这是我想说的 我们为未来而投资
And so what I want to leave you with is what I think is the ultimate question.	所以我将留给大家 这个我认为的根本问题
I mean, I'm an economist, but this is ultimately not an economic question, it's a moral question: Are we willing, as Americans, are we as a society still capable of making the political choice to sacrifice now by paying more taxes in order to improve the long-term future of not only our kids, but our community?	我想说，我是一个经济学家，但这在根本上 不是一个经济学问题，这是一个道德问题： 我们是否愿意，作为美国人 我们作为一个社会是否仍然能够 做出政治上的选择去牺牲现在 以付出更多的税作为代价 以改善长远的未来 不仅为了我们的孩子，也是为了我们的社会
Are we still capable of that as a country?	作为一个国家我们是否还能够做到这一点？
And that's something that each and every citizen and voter needs to ask themselves.	这是每一个公民 每一个选民需要问他们自己的问题
Is that something that you are still invested in, that you still believe in the notion of investment?	这是否是你仍然在坚持投资的， 那个你始终相信的投资理念
That is the notion of investment.	这就是投资的理念
You sacrifice now for a return later.	为未来牺牲现在
So I think the research evidence on the benefits of early childhood programs for the local economy is extremely strong.	所以我认为这些 对于儿童学龄前教育计划好处 的研究证据是极强的
However, the moral and political choice is still up to us, as citizens and as voters.	但是，道德和政治上的选择 还是取决于我们，作为公民和投票者
Thank you very much.	谢谢（鼓掌）
The first idea I'd like to suggest is that we all love music a great deal. It means a lot to us.	音乐，大家都非常热爱它， 因为它对于我们很重要。
But music is even more powerful if you don't just listen to it, but you make it yourself.	假如你不只是作为一名听众，而且还能亲自参与创作，那么音乐会对你更具影响力。
So, that's my first idea. And we all know about the Mozart effect -- the idea that's been around for the last five to 10 years -- that just by listening to music or by playing music to your baby [in utero], that it'll raise our IQ points 10, 20, 30 percent.	这是我要讲的第一点。在最近5-10年里， 有个著名的莫扎特效应， 讲的就是单靠听音乐，或者是给胎儿播放音乐， 就可以使我们的智商提高10%到30%。
Great idea, but it doesn't work at all.	这真是个好主意，但是根本行不通。
So, you can't just listen to music, you have to make it somehow.	光听是不够的，你还必须设法创作音乐。
And I'd add to that, that it's not just making it, but everybody, each of us, everybody in the world has the power to create and be part of music in a very dynamic way, and that's one of the main parts of my work.	我还要说，不单如此， 我们每一个人、世界上的所有的人， 都应该能够进行创作，并以动态的方式让自己和音乐融为一体。 这正是我从事的工作中非常重要的一部分。
So, with the MIT Media Lab, for quite a while now, we've been engaged in a field called active music.	在美国麻省理工学院媒体实验室里， 我和我的同事们长期以来致力于"动感音乐"的研究：
What are all the possible ways that we can think of to get everybody in the middle of a musical experience, not just listening, but making music?	通过寻求可行的途径， 使人人都能够体验和融入音乐。 让大家不只是在聆听音乐，而且还能够创作音乐。
And we started by making instruments for some of the world's greatest performers -- we call these hyperinstruments -- for Yo-Yo Ma, Peter Gabriel, Prince, orchestras, rock bands. Instruments where they're all kinds of sensors built right into the instrument, so the instrument knows how it's being played.	起初，我们为像马友友、Peter Gabriel、Prince这样的演奏大师， 以及管弦和摇滚乐队制作了"超级乐器"。 这种乐器集成了多种传感器， 以感知我们是如何演奏乐曲的。
And just by changing the interpretation and the feeling, I can turn my cello into a voice, or into a whole orchestra, or into something that nobody has ever heard before.	（有了它，）我只需稍稍改变演绎方式和感情， 就可以把大提琴演奏声变为和谐的人声、一个乐团的协奏， 甚至变成我们从未听过的天籁之音。
When we started making these, I started thinking, why can't we make wonderful instruments like that for everybody, people who aren't fantastic Yo-Yo Mas or Princes?	随即，我们开始思考， 为什么不能制作同样完美的乐器，使它成为平常人， 而不仅仅是马友友或Princes大师们所演奏呢？
So, we've made a whole series of instruments.	于是，我们制作了一组乐器，
One of the largest collections is called the Brain Opera.	统称其为"头脑歌剧"。
It's a whole orchestra of about 100 instruments, all designed for anybody to play using natural skill.	这个管弦乐队大约有100件乐器， 都是按平常人的自然演奏方式所设计的。
So, you can play a video game, drive through a piece of music, use your body gesture to control huge masses of sound, touch a special surface to make melodies, use your voice to make a whole aura.	这样，你可以打游戏，"开"过一段音乐， 使用肢体语言来控制大量的声音， 通过触摸特制的表面来产生美妙的乐音，还可以用自己的声音来营造某种氛围。
And when we make the Brain Opera, we invite the public to come in, to try these instruments and then collaborate with us to help make each performance of the Brain Opera.	当这些乐器制作完成之后， 我们邀请公众前来体验，并和他们一起， 举办了多场演奏音乐会。
We toured that for a long time. It is now permanently in Vienna, where we built a museum around it.	这些巡演持续了相当长的一段时间。现在，在音乐之都维也纳， 我们还建造了一处永久性的博物馆。
And that led to something which you probably do know.	这些都促成了 "吉他英雄"的诞生，
Guitar Hero came out of our lab, and my two teenage daughters and most of the students at the MIT Media Lab are proof that if you make the right kind of interface, people are really interested in being in the middle of a piece of music, and playing it over and over and over again.	相信你多半听说过这款源自我们实验室的游戏。 有一点，在我两个十几岁的女儿和实验室不少学生的身上， 都得到了验证。这就是，只要你提供合适的交互界面， 人们就会乐于融入音乐， 并对演奏乐此不疲。
So, the model works, but it's only the tip of the iceberg, because my second idea is that it's not enough just to want to make music in something like Guitar Hero.	这个模式可行，但是可做的远不止这些。 我的第二点观点就是， 仅用"吉他英雄"这类东西来做音乐还不够。
And music is very fun, but it's also transformative.	音乐不仅非常有趣，而且还颇具影响力。
It's very, very important.	非常非常重要的一点是，
Music can change your life, more than almost anything.	音乐能够改变你的人生，为其他的方式所不及，
It can change the way you communicate with others, it can change your body, it can change your mind. So, we're trying to go to the next step of how you build on top of something like Guitar Hero.	能够改变人与人之间的交流方式， 还能够改变你的身心。于是，我们力求有所突破， 也就是想在"吉他英雄"这类事物的基础上做点什么。
We are very involved in education. We have a long-term project called Toy Symphony, where we make all kinds of instruments that are also addictive, but for little kids, so the kids will fall in love with making music, want to spend their time doing it, and then will demand to know how it works, how to make more, how to create. So, we make squeezy instruments, like these Music Shapers that measure the electricity in your fingers, Beatbugs that let you tap in rhythms -- they gather your rhythm, and like hot potato, you send your rhythm to your friends, who then have to imitate or respond to what your doing -- and a software package called Hyperscore, which lets anybody use lines and color to make quite sophisticated music. Extremely easy to use, but once you use it, you can go quite deep -- music in any style. And then, by pressing a button, it turns into music notation so that live musicians can play your pieces.	我们深入到教育界，开展了一个叫做"玩具交响乐"的长期项目。 我们为小朋友制作了一系列特别好玩的乐器， 期望他们会喜欢上演奏， 并愿意在这方面投入时间，进而渴求学习乐理知识， 以及如何演奏、创作音乐。我们制作了一种可以捏的乐器， 比如说这个可以测量手指间电流的"音乐塑型机"。 又如这个用于敲击节奏的 "节拍虫子"，你可以用它来收集节奏， 然后把这个信息像丢烫土豆似地传给你的朋友， 他们需要模仿你，或者对你的动作作出反应。 再就是制作一种叫做"超级乐谱"的软件。 它可以让大家用线条和色彩来绘制出复杂的音乐，（操作方法简便，）特别容易使用。 一旦上了手，任何曲风的音乐，对你来说都是手到擒来。最后只要摁下按钮， 这个软件就能自动转换出乐谱，以便让音乐家来演奏你创作的乐章。
We've had good enough, really, very powerful effects with kids around the world, and now people of all ages, using Hyperscore.	我们的这个软件，在世界各地的孩子和不同年龄段的人群身上， 都取得了良好的、非常显著的效果。
So, we've gotten more and more interested in using these kinds of creative activities in a much broader context, for all kinds of people who don't usually have the opportunity to make music.	所以，我们乐于将此类创意运用到 更加广泛的人群中， 让那些没有机会进行音乐创作的人也能积极参与。
So, one of the growing fields that we're working on at the Media Lab right now is music, mind and health.	其中，我们实验室正在拓展的一个领域叫作 "音乐、心智和健康"。
A lot of you have probably seen Oliver Sacks' wonderful new book called "Musicophilia". It's on sale in the bookstore. It's a great book.	相信不少人都读过奥利佛•萨克斯的新书 《脑袋装了2000出歌剧的人》。这是一本正在热卖中的好书。
If you haven't seen it, it's worth reading. He's a pianist himself, and he details his whole career of looking at and observing incredibly powerful effects that music has had on peoples' lives in unusual situations.	如果你还没有看过，建议你读一读。 书的作者是一位钢琴家，他在书中详细地记录了自己职业生涯中所观察到的事实， 那就是音乐在非常状态下的人身上（残疾／重症病人），所能发生的不可思议的效应。
So we know, for instance, that music is almost always the last thing that people with advanced Alzheimer's can still respond to.	正如大家所知道的那样， 音乐是老年痴呆症患者晚期能做出响应的最后一样事物。
Maybe many of you have noticed this with loved ones, you can find somebody who can't recognize their face in the mirror, or can't tell anyone in their family, but you can still find a shard of music that that person will jump out of the chair and start singing. And with that you can bring back parts of people's memories and personalities.	也许不少人在挚爱亲朋身上观察到这样的现象： 他们无法识别镜子里的自己、无法认出家人， 但是你仍然能找到一段音乐， 让他们从病榻中惊醒，随声轻和。 正是借助这样的方法，你可以唤回一些他们的记忆和自我意识。
Music is the best way to restore speech to people who have lost it through strokes, movement to people with Parkinson's disease.	对于治愈中风所导致的失语症，以及帕金森症所导致的运动失能， 音乐是最好的办法。
It's very powerful for depression, schizophrenia, many, many things.	它对抑郁症、精神分裂症和许许多多其它病症都颇具疗效。
So, we're working on understanding those underlying principles and then building activities which will let music really improve people's health.	我们目前正在探寻这些现象背后的原理， 并开展一系列活动，用音乐来改善人类健康。
And we do this in many ways. We work with many different hospitals.	我们采取了很多方式，和各类医院有着合作。
One of them is right near Boston, called Tewksbury Hospital.	其中有一家就是离美国波士顿不远的图斯伯里医院。
It's a long-term state hospital, where several years ago we started working with Hyperscore and patients with physical and mental disabilities.	这是一家历史悠久的州立医院。许多年前， 我们在那里就开始将"超级乐谱" 介绍给生理和精神残疾病人。
This has become a central part of the treatment at Tewksbury hospital, so everybody there clamors to work on musical activities.	这已成为图斯伯里医院核心治疗项目， 每个接受治疗的人都要求参与音乐活动。
It's the activity that seems to accelerate people's treatment the most and it also brings the entire hospital together as a kind of musical community.	这一活动似乎大大加速了治疗的过程， 在某种程度上也把医院变成音乐社区。
I wanted to show you a quick video of some of this work before I go on.	继续下一个话题之前，我想先给大家看些以上内容的相关短片。
They're manipulating each other's rhythms.	参与者在操控音乐节奏。
It's a real experience, not only to learn how to play and listen to rhythms, but to train your musical memory and playing music in a group.	通过亲身体验，孩子们不但学会了怎样演奏和听节奏， 而且锻炼了音乐记忆，练习了合奏。
To get their hands on music, to shape it themselves, change it, to experiment with it, to make their own music.	他们"拿"着音乐，捏一捏， 改变和体验它，并创作自己的音乐。
So Hyperscore lets you start from scratch very quickly.	"超级乐谱"从涂涂画画开始，很便捷。
Everybody can experience music in a profound way, we just have to make different tools.	个人都可以深刻地体验音乐， 我们所必须做的就是创造各种各样的工具。
The third idea I want to share with you is that music, paradoxically, I think even more than words, is one of the very best ways we have of showing who we really are. I love giving talks, although strangely I feel more nervous giving talks than playing music.	第三点想法是：我觉得音乐，异乎寻常地， 是比语言更好的展示自我的方式。 我也喜欢做演讲， 但是奇怪的是，我在演讲时，比演奏音乐感觉要更局促些。
If I were here playing cello, or playing on a synth, or sharing my music with you, I'd be able to show things about myself that I can't tell you in words, more personal things, perhaps deeper things.	当在演奏大提琴、控制电子音响合成器，或者和你们共同分享我的音乐时， 我就能展现无法用语言描述的一面， 更多的是个人的，也许更深层的东西。
I think that's true for many of us, and I want to give you two examples of how music is one of the most powerful interfaces we have, from ourselves to the outside world.	对于我们中许多人来讲，我想的确是这样。我想举两个例子， 来说明音乐是我们与外界交流的 最有效的媒介之一。
The first is a really crazy project that we're building right now, called Death and the Powers. And it's a big opera, one of the larger opera projects going on in the world right now.	首先是我们现在正在进行的一个非常疯狂的项目，名字叫作《死亡和鲍威尔一家》。 它是一部大型歌剧， 是目前全球在运作中的大型歌剧项目之一。
And it's about a man, rich, successful, powerful, who wants to live forever.	它是关于一位富有、成功、有权势并期望永生的人的歌剧。
So, he figures out a way to download himself into his environment, actually into a series of books.	他找到了把自己下载到他所建立的环境 —一系列的书籍—中去的办法。
So this guy wants to live forever, he downloads himself into his environment.	于是，他想长生不老，就把自己放进了系统中。
The main singer disappears at the beginning of the opera and the entire stage becomes the main character. It becomes his legacy.	主唱在歌剧开始后便消失了， 整个舞台变成了主角，变成了他的遗赠。
And the opera is about what we can share, what we can pass on to others, to the people we love, and what we can't.	这部歌剧讲的是，我们能和所爱的人分享些什么，向他们传承些什么， 又有什么是办不到的。
Every object in the opera comes alive and is a gigantic music instrument, like this chandelier. It takes up the whole stage. It looks like a chandelier, but it's actually a robotic music instrument.	歌剧中的所有道具都是活的、巨型的乐器。 譬如，占据舞台很大部份的一盏"吊灯"。它看上去像个吊灯， 但同时又是一件机器人乐器。
So, as you can see in this prototype, gigantic piano strings, each string is controlled with a little robotic element -- either little bows that stroke the strings, propellers that tickle the strings, acoustic signals that vibrate the strings. We also have an army of robots on stage.	正如你在这里的样机上所看到的，长长的钢琴弦， 每根都被小型机器人部件所控制。 这里有小巧的琴弓来拨动，驱动器来撩拨， 声学信号来震动琴弦。在舞台上，还会出现一大群机器人。
These robots are the kind of the intermediary between the main character, Simon Powers, and his family. There are a whole series of them, kind of like a Greek chorus.	这些机器人是主角西蒙•鲍威尔和家人之间交流的一种媒介。 他们为数众多，有如古希腊歌剧中的合唱团。
They observe the action. We've designed these square robots that we're testing right now at MIT called OperaBots. These OperaBots follow my music.	他们观察舞台上的一举一动。我们在实验室里设计和测试了这些立方形的 "歌剧机器人"。它们能随歌舞动，
They follow the characters. They're smart enough, we hope, not to bump into each other. They go off on their own.	还会跟随舞台人物。它们很聪明， 我们也希望他们能互相规避。它们自主行动；
And then they can also, when you snap, line up exactly the way you'd like to.	如果你打个指响，他们也会如你所愿，排成整齐的一行。
Even though they're cubes, they actually have a lot of personality.	别看它们是一个个方盒子，却拥有许多人格化的内涵。
The largest set piece in the opera is called The System. It's a series of books.	歌剧中最大的道具就是所谓"系统"。它是一系列"图书"。
Every single book is robotic, so they all move, they all make sound, and when you put them all together, they turn into these walls, which have the gesture and the personality of Simon Powers. So he's disappeared, but the whole physical environment becomes this person.	每一部书都是一个机器人，都能运动，都能发声。 放在一起，它们构成了一道道投影墙， 展现出西蒙•鲍威尔的动作和性格。歌剧的主人公虽然消失在舞台上， 却存在于环境之中。
This is how he's chosen to represent himself.	这是他选择的，代表自己的办法。
The books also have high-packed LEDs on the spines. So it's all display.	这些书的书脊上集成了LED光源，作为显示平面。
And here's the great baritone James Maddalena as he enters The System.	这位是男中音詹姆士•抹大拉，他正在进入系统。
This is a sneak preview.	这是预告片。
This premieres in Monaco -- it's in September 2009. If by any chance you can't make it, another idea with this project -- here's this guy building his legacy through this very unusual form, through music and through the environment.	首映将于2009年10月在摩洛哥举行。如果你不能前往观看， 那么还有一个办法。 西蒙用一种非同寻常的方法，即通过音乐和环境，来建立他的遗赠。
But we're also making this available both online and in public spaces, as a way of each of us to use music and images from our lives to make our own legacy or to make a legacy of someone we love.	我们将把系统放在网络和公共场所， 以便人人都能用音乐和生活中的影像 来制作我们或者我们挚爱的人的遗赠。
So instead of being grand opera, this opera will turn into what we're thinking of as personal opera.	这不再是一部单纯的大歌剧，它将把我们现在所想的， 变成一部个性化歌剧。
And, if you're going to make a personal opera, what about a personal instrument?	要做个性化歌剧，怎么能没有个性化的乐器呢？
Everything I've shown you so far -- whether it's a hyper-cello for Yo-Yo Ma or squeezy toy for a child -- the instruments stayed the same and are valuable for a certain class of person: a virtuoso, a child.	我到目前为止所展示的这些，比如给马友友的超级大提琴， 又如给孩子们捏音乐的玩具，这些乐器都是一成不变的， 或为艺术家，或为小朋友，它仅仅针对某一类人有着实用价值。
But what if I could make an instrument that could be adapted to the way I personally behave, to the way my hands work, to what I do very skillfully, perhaps, to what I don't do so skillfully?	试想一下，如果我再制作一种乐器，能够适应我的个人行为， 按照手指弹奏方式，根据我熟悉的，甚至不熟悉的技法 来自我调整，情况又会如何呢？
I think that this is the future of interface, it's the future of music, the future of instruments.	我以为这就是交互界面、音乐和乐器的未来趋势。
And I'd like now to invite two very special people on the stage, so that I can give you an example of what personal instruments might be like.	为了现场演示个性化乐器， 我想邀请两位嘉宾到台上。
So, can you give a hand to Adam Boulanger, Ph.D. student from the MIT Media Lab, and Dan Ellsey. Dan, thanks to TED and to Bombardier Flexjet, Dan is here with us today all the way from Tewksbury. He's a resident at Tewksbury Hospital.	掌声有请，亚当•布朗杰，麻省理工媒体实验室的博士生 和丹•埃尔西。 感谢TED，感谢庞巴迪·佛里士杰 丹今天从图斯伯里远道而来，他在那里住院。
This is by far the farthest he's strayed from Tewksbury Hospital, I can tell you that, because he's motivated to meet with you today and show you his own music.	我要告诉大家：这是迄今为止，他离开医院外出旅行距离最远的一次。 他是因为要和大家见面并分享自已的音乐，才特意来这里的。
So, first of all, Dan, do you want to say hi to everyone and tell everyone who you are?	丹，先自我介绍一下，好吗？
Dan Ellsey: Hello. My name is Dan Ellsey. I am 34 years old and I have cerebral palsy.	丹•埃尔西：你们好，我叫丹•埃尔西。我34岁，是一名脑瘫患者。
I have always loved music and I am excited to be able to conduct my own music with this new software.	我一直都很热爱音乐，能用这样的新软件来指挥我的乐曲， 我感到非常激动。
Tod Machover: And we're really excited to have you here, really Dan.	托德•麦克弗（以下简称托德）：你能来这里，我们真的也很激动。
So we met Dan about three years ago, three and a half years ago, when we started working at Tewksbury. Everybody we met there was fantastic, did fantastic music. Dan had never made music before, and it turned out he was really fantastic at it. He's a born composer.	我们和丹大约在三年半前相识， 那时我们刚开始和图斯伯里医院合作。那里我们遇到的每一个人都妙极了， 能作出美妙的曲子。丹此前从来没有作曲，但出乎意料的是， 他长于此道。他天生就是个作曲家。
He's very shy, too.	他也很害羞。
So, turned out he's a fantastic composer, and over the last few years has been a constant collaborator of ours. He has made many, many pieces.	嗯，他是一个非常棒的作曲家。从那以后， 我们就成了固定合作者。丹作了许多许多曲子，
He makes his own CDs. Actually, he is quite well known in the Boston area -- mentors people at the hospital and children, locally, in how to make their own music.	发行了自己的CD唱片。其实在波士顿地区，他知名度很高， 还教授医院的人们和当地的孩子如何创作音乐。
And I'll let Adam tell you. So, Adam is a Ph.D. student at MIT, an expert in music technology and medicine. And Adam and Dan have become close collaborators.	下面请亚当来讲，他是麻省理工学院的博士生， 音乐技术和医药方面的专家，和丹有着密切的合作。
What Adam's been working on for this last period is not only how to have Dan be able easily to make his own pieces, but how he can perform his piece using this kind of personal instrument.	亚当所做的不但使丹能够 轻轻松松作曲， 而且使他能用个性化乐器来演奏自己的作品。
So, you want to say a little bit about how you guys work?	怎么样，谈谈你们是怎么做的吧？
Adam Boulanger: Yes. So, Tod and I entered into a discussion following the Tewksbury work and it was really about how Dan is an expressive person, and he's an intelligent and creative person. And it's in his face, it's in his breathing, it's in his eyes. How come he can't perform one of his pieces of music? That's our responsibility, and it doesn't make sense.	亚当•布朗杰：好。图斯伯里医院的项目源自 我和托德的一次讨论，那时我们谈到丹是个非常有表现欲、 聪明而且有创造力的人。你可以从 他的一举一动里看出来。为什么他就不能演奏一段属于自己乐曲呢？ 没有理由说这不可以呀！同样，这也是我们的责任。
So we started developing a technology that will allow him with nuance, with precision, with control, and despite his physical disability, to be able to do that, to be able to perform his piece of music.	于是我们着手研发一种技术， 让他用微小的动作和精准的操控，来演奏自己的作品， 而对自己肢体的不便不必介意。
So, the process and the technology -- basically, first we needed an engineering solution. So, you know, we have a FireWire camera, it looked at an infrared pointer.	嗯，谈到流程和技术， 简言之，首先需要一个工程之道。你看， 我们放置了一台1394火线接口的摄像头来追踪红外指针。
We went with the type of gesture metaphor that Dan was already used to with his speaking controller.	我们利用了丹在言语控制中使用的肢体语言 和表意系统。
And this was actually the least interesting part of the work, you know, the design process. We needed an input; we needed continuous tracking; in the software, we look at the types of shapes he's making.	设计流程是"不太"有趣的一部份。 我们需要一些输入、持续的跟踪 以及软件来监测他做出的不同形状。
But, then was the really interesting aspect of the work, following the engineering part, where, basically, we're coding over Dan's shoulder at the hospital extensively to figure out, you know, how does Dan move?	解决了工程问题，随后便是工作中真正有趣的部分了。 简单的讲吧，我们在医院现场编程，和丹密切合作， 理解他是如何动作，
What's useful to him as an expressive motion?	哪些具有表现力的动作是他觉得有用的。
You know, what's his metaphor for performance?	再如，他用什么手法来演奏？
What types of things does he find important to control and convey in a piece of music?	哪些是他觉得重要， 并可以用于控制和传达音乐的东西？
So all the parameter fitting, and really the technology was stretched at that point to fit just Dan.	可以说，所有的参数、所有的技术， 都是为丹量身定做的。
And, you know, I think this is a perspective shift. It's not that our technologies -- they provide access, they allow us to create pieces of creative work.	嗯，我觉得，这也是未来的趋势。 并非是技术本身打开了创新之门。
But what about expression? What about that moment when an artist delivers that piece of work? You know, do our technologies allow us to express?	是表达么？是艺术家创作作品的那一刻吗？ 我们的技术有给大家表述的机会么？
Do they provide structure for us to do that? And, you know, that's a personal relationship to expression that is lacking in the technological sphere. So, you know, with Dan, we needed a new design process, a new engineering process to sort of discover his movement and his path to expression that allow him to perform.	他们有提供这样的构架吗？其实，是人与人之间的联系 产生了表达，而这恰是技术本身所不能的。 于是，我们需要新的设计流程和工程流程， 来了解丹的动作以及表达方式，方便他来表演，
And so that's what we'll do today.	这便是今天我们所要做的。
TM: So let's do it. So Dan do you want to tell everyone about what you're going to play now?	托德：我们开始吧，丹，要告诉大家 你将要演奏什么吗？
DE: This is "My Eagle Song."	丹：我的"鹰之颂"。
TM: So Dan is going to play a piece of his, called "My Eagle Song".	托德：丹将演奏他的乐曲"鹰之颂"。
In fact, this is the score for Dan's piece, completely composed by Dan in Hyperscore.	这是他的乐谱， 完全由他用"超级乐谱"完成的。
So he can use his infrared tracker to go directly into Hyperscore.	他用红外追踪器来操作软件。
He's incredibly fast at it, too, faster than I am, in fact.	他用起软件来，出乎意料的快，事实上，比我还快呢。
TM: He's really modest, too.	丹：呜呜呀呀…… 托德：他太谦虚了，哈哈。
So he can go in Hyperscore. You start out by making melodies and rhythms.	他使用了软件，从乐音和旋律开始，
He can place those exactly where he wants.	他可以把它们放置在自己想要的地方。
Each one gets a color. He goes back into the composition window, draws the lines, places everything the way he wants to. Looking at the Hyperscore, you can see it also, you can see where the sections are, something might continue for a while, change, get really crazy and then end up with a big bang at the end.	每个元素都有色彩，回到编曲窗口， 画线，把这些东西放到他所想要的位置。 看着"超级乐谱"， 你可以观察到音乐的 起承转合。
So that's the way he made his piece, and as Adam says, we then figured out the best way to have him perform his piece.	这就是他作曲的方法。正如亚当所说的， 我们找到了让他演奏的最好的办法。
It's going to be looked at by this camera, analyze his movements, it's going to let Dan bring out all the different aspects of his music that he wants to.	摄像头会监控丹，分析他的动作， 让他随心所欲地展示他音乐的方方面面。
And you're also going to notice a visual on the screen.	你还会看到荧屏上的视觉特效。
We asked one of our students to look at what the camera is measuring.	我的一位学生负责视觉采样。
But instead of making it very literal, showing you exactly the camera tracing, we turned it into a graphic that shows you the basic movement, and shows the way it's being analyzed.	其实这里并非是原封不动地显示相机跟踪的物体， 我们把采集的数据转化成了影像， 以便显示基本的运动和分析的方法。
I think it gives an understanding of how we're picking out movement from what Dan's doing, but I think it will also show you, if you look at that movement, that when Dan makes music, his motions are very purposeful, very precise, very disciplined and they're also very beautiful.	我觉得这些影像有助于大家理解我们是如何提取丹的动作。 如果观察他表演时的举动， 屏幕上的影像还能展现丹的动作目的明确、精准、 有专业素养，并且很优美。
So, in hearing this piece, as I mentioned before, the most important thing is the music's great, and it'll show you who Dan is.	正如我先前提到的，在听他的作品时， 重点是音乐棒极了，它会告诉你一个真实的丹。
So, are we ready Adam?	亚当，准备好了么？
Yeah.	亚当：好啦。
TM: OK, now Dan will play his piece "My Eagle Song" for you.	托德：好，有请丹为大家表演他的作品"鹰之颂"。
TM: Bravo.	托德：太棒了。
This is the venue where, as a young man, some of the music that I wrote was first performed.	就是这个地方 那时我还年轻 我的音乐首演就是在这里
It was, remarkably, a pretty good sounding room.	特别强调一下，这是一个 声音效果非常棒的房间
With all the uneven walls and all the crap everywhere, it actually sounded pretty good.	墙面凹凸不平，到处都是垃圾 它的音效实际上却非常不错
This is a song that was recorded there.	这首歌就是在那里录制的
This is not Talking Heads, in the picture anyway.	不过照片里的 还不是传声头像
" by Talking Heads) So the nature of the room meant that words could be understood.	（音乐："A Clean Break " 传声头像） 这房间的结构 让吐字变得易于理解
The lyrics of the songs could be pretty much understood.	歌词很容易听清
The sound system was kind of decent.	音响系统相当不错
And there wasn't a lot of reverberation in the room.	房间里的混响也不太大
So the rhythms could be pretty intact too, pretty concise.	因此旋律 保存得相当完好 相当凝练
Other places around the country had similar rooms.	国内还有很多地方有这样的房间
This is Tootsie's Orchid Lounge in Nashville.	这是纳什维尔的Tootsie's Orchid Lounge
The music was in some ways different, but in structure and form, very much the same.	这里的音乐有些不同 但结构和形式 却很相似
The clientele behavior was very much the same too.	客人的行为习惯也很类似
And so the bands at Tootsie's or at CBGB's had to play loud enough -- the volume had to be loud enough to overcome people falling down, shouting out and doing whatever else they were doing.	因此在Tootsie's和 CBGB（纽约传奇摇滚音乐俱乐部）里表演的乐队 都必须演奏得非常大声—— 音量要大得足以压过 人们跌倒、大吼大叫 或者发出的其他声音
Since then, I've played other places that are much nicer.	在那以后，我还在其他 更高级的场所表演过
I've played the Disney Hall here and Carnegie Hall and places like that.	我在这里的迪斯尼音乐厅 或是卡内基音乐厅之类的地方演奏过
And it's been very exciting.	都是激动人心的经历
But I also noticed that sometimes the music that I had written, or was writing at the time, didn't sound all that great in some of those halls.	但我也发现，有时候 我之前 或是当时谱写的歌曲 在其中的一些音乐厅 表现得并不理想
We managed, but sometimes those halls didn't seem exactly suited to the music I was making or had made.	我们尽量做了调整 但有些时候，那些地方 和我创作的音乐 就是显得不太协调
So I asked myself: Do I write stuff for specific rooms?	我问自己 我是不是在为着什么特定的场所 进行创作呢？
Do I have a place, a venue, in mind when I write?	在我创作时，脑海中 是不是有一个地点、一个场所呢？
Is that a kind of model for creativity?	这算不算是一种创作模式呢？
Do we all make things with a venue, a context, in mind?	我们创作时是不是 脑海中都有着某个场所、某个情境？
Okay, Africa.	好了，这是非洲
Most of the popular music that we know now has a big part of its roots in West Africa.	（音乐： "Wenlenga" / 多名艺术家) 当今我们所知的大部分流行音乐 有很大一部分是源于西非的
And the music there, I would say, the instruments, the intricate rhythms, the way it's played, the setting, the context, it's all perfect. It all works perfect.	而这里的音乐 要我说，这乐器 这复杂的节奏 演奏的方式，背景，情境 一切都很完美，协调得天衣无缝
The music works perfectly in that setting.	在那种背景下，这样的音乐是完美的
There's no big room to create reverberation and confuse the rhythms.	没有大房间 制造混响，干扰节奏
The instruments are loud enough that they can be heard without amplification, etc., etc.	乐器的声音也够大 即使没有功放之类的设备也能听得一清二楚
It's no accident.	这不是偶然的
It's perfect for that particular context.	这音乐只在特定情境下才表现得如此完美
And it would be a mess in a context like this. This is a gothic cathedral.	如果改成这样的场所 那就会一团糟。这是一座哥特式大教堂
In a gothic cathedral, this kind of music is perfect.	（音乐："Spem In Alium" 托马斯·塔利斯） 在哥特式大教堂，这类的音乐才是完美的
It doesn't change key, the notes are long, there's almost no rhythm whatsoever, and the room flatters the music.	不改变音调，音符拖得很长 基本上没有节奏 而这个房间则为音乐锦上添花
It actually improves it.	实际上，它提升了音乐
This is the room that Bach wrote some of his music for. This is the organ.	这里是巴赫为其 创作乐曲的地方。这是管风琴
It's not as big as a gothic cathedral, so he can write things that are a little bit more intricate.	这里并没有哥特式大教堂那么大 所以他可以创作更繁复的作品
He can, very innovatively, actually change keys without risking huge dissonances.	他可以标新立异 改变调子 而不会发生不协和和音
This is a little bit later.	（音乐："Fantasia On Jesu, Mein Freunde" 约翰·S·巴赫） 这是晚些时候
This is the kind of rooms that Mozart wrote in.	类似莫扎特创作时所在的房间
I think we're in like 1770, somewhere around there.	我想大概是1770年左右的建筑
They're smaller, even less reverberant, so he can write really frilly music that's very intricate -- and it works.	它们空间更小，混响也更小 所以他能作出可谓华丽的曲子 他的音乐非常繁复——而且效果甚佳
It fits the room perfectly.	（音乐："F小调奏鸣曲" 乌夫冈·A·莫扎特） 它完美地契合了这个房间
This is La Scala.	这是斯卡啦剧院
It's around the same time, I think it was built around 1776.	它和之前的那个房间差不多建造于同一时期 我想大概建于1776年
People in the audience in these opera houses, when they were built, they used to yell out to one another.	在歌剧院建成的时期 里面的听众常常互相嚷嚷
They used to eat, drink and yell out to people on the stage, just like they do at CBGB's and places like that.	他们经常一边大吃大喝，一边和舞台上的人大喊大叫 就像CBGB这类场所的观众一样
If they liked an aria, they would holler and suggest that it be done again as an encore, not at the end of the show, but immediately.	如果他们喜欢其中一段咏叹调 会大喊着建议 这一段再演一次 不是在演出最后再演一次，而是马上重演
And well, that was an opera experience.	嗯，那就是看歌剧的经验之谈
This is the opera house that Wagner built for himself.	这是瓦格纳自己建造的歌剧院
And the size of the room is not that big.	剧院的规模不是很大
It's smaller than this.	比这里要小
But Wagner made an innovation.	但是瓦格纳进行了革新
He wanted a bigger band.	他想要一支更大的乐队
He wanted a little more bombast, so he increased the size of the orchestra pit so he could get more low-end instruments in there.	多一点浮华的感觉 于是他增加了乐池的面积 这样就可以容纳更多的低音乐器
Okay.	（音乐："罗恩格林/第三幕序曲" 理查德·瓦格纳） 好了
This is Carnegie Hall.	这是卡内基音乐厅
Obviously, this kind of thing became popular.	这类的建筑显然已经流行起来
The halls got bigger. Carnegie Hall's fair-sized.	音乐厅规模更大。卡内基音乐厅的大小和集市差不多
It's larger than some of the other symphony halls.	比一些交响乐厅还大
And they're a lot more reverberant than La Scala.	那里的混响比 斯卡拉剧院的更大
Around the same, according to Alex Ross who writes for the New Yorker, this kind of rule came into effect that audiences had to be quiet -- no more eating, drinking and yelling at the stage, or gossiping with one another during the show.	与此同时 根据Alex Ross给《纽约客》所写的文章可以看出 这样的规则孕育而生： 观众必须保持安静 在演出的过程中，不能再吃吃喝喝 向舞台上大喊大叫 或者和别人交头接耳
They had to be very quiet.	他们必须非常安静
So those two things combined meant that a different kind of music worked best in these kind of halls.	结合这两件事来看 有一种不同类型的音乐 在这样的音乐厅中效果最好
It meant that there could be extreme dynamics, which there weren't in some of these other kinds of music.	它可以气势磅礴 这是之前某些 种类的音乐所不具有的
Quiet parts could be heard that would have been drowned out by all the gossiping and shouting.	安静的部分也听得到 虽然很容易被 悄悄话和叫喊声淹没
But because of the reverberation in those rooms like Carnegie Hall, the music had to be maybe a little less rhythmic and a little more textural.	但由于混响的关系 在卡内基音乐厅之类的地方 音乐的节奏得稍微降低 质地却稍微提高
This is Mahler.	（音乐："降E大调第八交响曲" 古斯塔夫·马勒） 这是马勒
It looks like Bob Dylan, but it's Mahler.	虽然看上去像鲍勃·迪伦，但这确实是马勒
That was Bob's last record, yeah.	哈，这是鲍勃的最后一张唱片
Popular music, coming along at the same time.	流行音乐同时也诞生了
This is a jazz band.	这是一支爵士乐队
According to Scott Joplin, the bands were playing on riverboats and clubs.	据斯科特·乔普林所说，这支乐队曾经 在游船和夜总会中表演过
Again, it's noisy. They're playing for dancers.	这一次的环境又很嘈杂。他们为跳舞的人伴奏
There's certain sections of the song -- the songs had different sections that the dancers really liked.	有些段落舞者特别喜欢 ——一首歌中有好几个段落
And they'd say, "Play that part again."	他们会说："把那部分再演奏一次。"
Well, there's only so many times you can play the same section of a song over and over again for the dancers.	有很多时候 为了满足舞者，你会一次又一次地演奏同一个段落
So the bands started to improvise new melodies.	因此，乐队开始即兴创作新的曲子
And a new form of music was born.	一种音乐的新类型诞生了
These are played mainly in small rooms.	（音乐："皇家花园蓝调" W.C. Handy / Ethel Waters） 爵士乐主要在空间较小的室内演奏
People are dancing, shouting and drinking.	人们跳舞、叫喊、畅饮
So the music has to be loud enough to be heard above that.	所以，音乐的声音必须够大 盖过别的声音
Same thing goes true for -- that's the beginning of the century -- for the whole of 20th-century popular music, whether it's rock or Latin music or whatever.	有些事情成真了。——那是在这个世纪之初 对整个20世纪的流行音乐来说 无论是摇滚还是拉丁音乐
[Live music] doesn't really change that much.	对音乐的改变都不是很大
It changes about a third of the way into the 20th century, when this became one of the primary venues for music.	但当它成为音乐的主要媒介之一后 在20世纪的前30年间 流行音乐就发生了很大改变
And this was one way that the music got there.	而这是音乐传播到那里的 方法之一
Microphones enabled singers, in particular, and musicians and composers, to completely change the kind of music that they were writing.	麦克风完全改变了 音乐家、作曲家 特别是歌手 创作的作品
So far, a lot of the stuff that was on the radio was live music, but singers, like Frank Sinatra, could use the mic and do things that they could never do without a microphone.	迄今为止，收音机上大多播放的都是现场演奏 但有些歌手，比如法兰克·辛纳屈 可以用麦克风 制造一些 不用麦克风根本无法达到的效果
Other singers after him went even further.	在他之后，更有一些歌手 把这种做法发扬光大
This is Chet Baker.	（音乐："My Funny Valentine" Chet Baker） 这是Chet Baker（著名爵士乐手）
And this kind of thing would have been impossible without a microphone.	这种效果 没有麦克风绝对做不出来
It would have been impossible without recorded music as well.	如果没有录成唱片，那也无法达到
And he's singing right into your ear.	他就在你的耳畔歌唱
He's whispering into your ears.	在你的耳畔低语
The effect is just electric.	这种效果就像过了电一样
It's like the guy is sitting next to you, whispering who knows what into your ear.	仿佛歌手就坐在你的身边 和你说着什么东西
So at this point, music diverged.	从那个时候起，音乐开始分化
There's live music, and there's recorded music.	既有现场音乐 也有唱片音乐
And they no longer have to be exactly the same.	它们不再完全相同
Now there's venues like this, a discotheque, and there's jukeboxes in bars, where you don't even need to have a band.	现在还有迪斯科舞厅这样的地方 在酒吧里也有自动点唱机 这些地方就不需要乐队了
There doesn't need to be any live performing musicians whatsoever, and the sound systems are good.	不需要那些 现场乐队之类的角色 那里的音响不错
People began to make music specifically for discos and for those sound systems.	人们开始专门为迪斯科 和这些音响 创作音乐
And, as with jazz, the dancers liked certain sections more than they did others.	此外，和爵士一样 跳舞的人会特别喜欢 其中一些片段
So the early hip-hop guys would loop certain sections.	所以早期的嘻哈歌手会来回重复某些段落
The MC would improvise lyrics in the same way that the jazz players would improvise melodies.	（音乐："Rapper's Delight" The Sugarhill Gang） 歌手会即兴创作歌词 就像爵士演奏者会即兴创作曲子一样
And another new form of music was born.	此外，还诞生了新的音乐模式
Live performance, when it was incredibly successful, ended up in what is probably, acoustically, the worst sounding venues on the planet: sports stadiums, basketball arenas and hockey arenas.	现场演出，它取得了空前的成功 而它诞生的场所从音响效果上来看 这恐怕是世界上最不适合听音乐的地方了 体育场 篮球场，还有冰球场
Musicians who ended up there did the best they could.	音乐家们尽了最大努力
They wrote what is now called arena rock, which is medium-speed ballads.	他们创作了"舞台摇滚" 听起来像是中速的谣曲
They did the best they could given that this is what they're writing for.	（音乐："I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For" U2） 他们已经尽了全力 写出了这样的歌曲
The tempos are medium. It sounds big.	节拍不快不慢，听起来很浑厚
It's more a social situation than a musical situation.	比起音乐场所 那里更像是一个社交场所
And in some ways, the music that they're writing for this place works perfectly.	在某些方面 他们为那里创作的音乐 非常契合
So there's more new venues.	那么，还有更多新的环境
One of the new ones is the automobile.	其中一个是汽车
I grew up with a radio in a car.	我是在汽车中的收音机边长大的
But now that's evolved into something else.	但如今它进化了
The car is a whole venue.	整辆汽车变成了一个环境
The music that, I would say, is written for automobile sound systems works perfectly on it.	（音乐："Who U Wit" Lil' Jon &amp; the East Side Boyz） 这种音乐，让我说，是写给 汽车音响系统的 完美地匹配了这个环境
It might not be what you want to listen to at home, but it works great in the car -- has a huge frequency spectrum, you know, big bass and high-end and the voice kind of stuck in the middle.	这也许不是你想在家里听的音乐 但在车子里听起来却很棒—— 频谱很宽 重低音，发烧天碟，你懂的 人声一般集中在中频
Automobile music, you can share with your friends.	我们可以和朋友一起享受汽车音乐
There's one other kind of new venue, the private MP3 player.	还有另一种新的环境 私人MP3播放器
Presumably, this is just for Christian music.	这一个大概只用来听基督教音乐吧
And in some ways it's like Carnegie Hall, or when the audience had to hush up, because you can now hear every single detail.	在某个方面，这和卡内基音乐厅有点像 听音乐的人必须安静 因为你能听到所有的细节
In other ways, it's more like the West African music because if the music in an MP3 player gets too quiet, you turn it up, and the next minute, your ears are blasted out by a louder passage.	在别的方面，它又更像西非音乐 因为如果MP3播放器里的音乐太过于安静 你把音量调高了，而下一秒钟 你的耳朵会被另一段嘈杂的音乐震聋
So that doesn't really work.	所以这并不很好用
I think pop music, mainly, it's written today, to some extent, is written for these kind of players, for this kind of personal experience where you can hear extreme detail, but the dynamic doesn't change that much.	我想，当前创作的 大多数流行音乐 可以说是写给这类播放器 这种个人体验的 你能听出细枝末节 又不怎么改变音乐的本质
So I asked myself: Okay, is this a model for creation, this adaptation that we do?	我自问 好了，这是不是 一种创作的模式呢？ 我们是不是在适应环境呢？
And does it happen anywhere else?	这又是不是放之四海而皆准呢？
Well, according to David Attenborough and some other people, birds do it too -- that the birds in the canopy, where the foliage is dense, their calls tend to be high-pitched, short and repetitive.	根据大卫·爱登堡（David Attenborough，著名生物纪录片主持人）和其他人所说 鸟儿们也是这么做的 树冠上的鸟 在树枝浓密的地方 它们的叫声通常 调子更高，急促，反复
And the birds on the floor tend to have lower pitched calls, so that they don't get distorted when they bounce off the forest floor.	而地面上的鸟 叫声通常调子更低 这样当它们在森林的地面上蹦蹦跳跳时 声音也不会被扰乱
And birds like this Savannah sparrow, they tend to have a buzzing type call.	像这只草原雀 它们的叫声更接近嘤嘤作响 （声音片段：草原雀之歌） 的类型
And it turns out that a sound like this is the most energy efficient and practical way to transmit their call across the fields and savannahs.	事实证明 这样的声音 能最有效、实用地利用体内能量 传播它们的叫声 穿越田野和草原
Other birds, like this tanager, have adapted within the same species.	其他的鸟，像这只唐纳雀 是同一鸟种中适应环境后的种类
The tananger on the East Coast of the United States, where the forests are a little denser, has one kind of call, and the tananger on the other side, on the west has a different kind of call.	唐纳雀生活在美国东海岸 那里的森林更茂盛一些 它们的叫声是这样的 而这一只唐纳雀则生活在对面，西边 （声音片段：猩红唐纳雀之歌） 它有着另一种叫声
So birds do it too.	（声音片段：猩红唐纳雀之歌） 因此，鸟儿也一样这么做
And I thought: Well, if this is a model for creation, if we make music, primarily the form at least, to fit these contexts, and if we make art to fit gallery walls or museum walls, and if we write software to fit existing operating systems, is that how it works?	然后我想 好吧，如果这是一种创作模式 如果我们创作音乐时 主要得符合情境 至少在形式上如此 如果我们根据画廊或者博物馆的墙壁来绘制作品 如果我们根据现有的操作系统来编写软件 这就是事情进行的方式吗？
Yeah. I think it's evolutionary.	对，我想这是一种进化
It's adaptive.	一种适应能力
But the pleasure and the passion and the joy is still there.	但乐趣、激情和愉悦 仍然存在
This is a reverse view of things from the kind of traditional Romantic view.	这是和传统的浪漫情怀 正好相反的观点
The Romantic view is that first comes the passion and then the outpouring of emotion, and then somehow it gets shaped into something.	在浪漫的观点看来 首先有激情 然后才有洋溢的感情 接着，它再被塑造成不同的东西
And I'm saying, well, the passion's still there, but the vessel that it's going to be injected into and poured into, that is instinctively and intuitively created first.	我要说 的确，激情不可或缺 但容器 那即将被填满、充实的容器 在最初就根据直觉 已经创造出来了
We already know where that passion is going.	我们之前就知道激情会走向何方
But this conflict of views is kind of interesting.	然而，这两个观点冲突的地方有一点挺有趣
The writer, Thomas Frank, says that this might be a kind of explanation why some voters vote against their best interests, that voters, like a lot of us, assume, that if they hear something that sounds like it's sincere, that it's coming from the gut, that it's passionate, that it's more authentic.	一名作家 托马斯·弗兰克 曾说 也许有一种解释可以说明 为什么有些选民 给自己利益的对立面投了一票 这些选民和我们的大多数人一样 假设，如果他们觉得某一方听起来很真诚 发自内心，激情洋溢 那一方就是更可靠的
And they'll vote for that.	他们会投上一票
So that, if somebody can fake sincerity, if they can fake passion, they stand a better chance of being selected in that way, which seems a little dangerous.	所以，如果有人假装真诚 假装富有激情 靠着这种方法，当然有一点风险 但他们就有更大的机会 被选上
I'm saying the two, the passion, the joy, are not mutually exclusive.	我要说，激情和快乐 并不是势不两立的
Maybe what the world needs now is for us to realize that we are like the birds.	或许，世界现在需要我们认识到 我们就像鸟儿
We adapt.	我们适应环境
We sing.	我们歌唱
And like the birds, the joy is still there, even though we have changed what we do to fit the context.	也和鸟儿一样，快乐仍在 即使我们改变了做法 为了适应环境
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
For a long time in my life, I felt like I'd been living two different lives.	在我生命中非常长的一段时间内， 我感觉我在过着两种不同的人生。
There's the life that everyone sees, and then there's the life that only I see.	一个是每个人都看见的人生， 另一个是只有我能看见的人生。
And in the life that everyone sees, who I am is a friend, a son, a brother, a stand-up comedian and a teenager.	在每个人都能看见的人生里， 我的角色是一个朋友、 儿子、兄弟、 喜剧演员和一名青少年。
That's the life everyone sees.	这是每个人都看到的人生。
If you were to ask my friends and family to describe me, that's what they would tell you.	如果你要问我的朋友和家人来形容我， 这是他们会告诉你的。
And that's a huge part of me. That is who I am.	这是很大一部分的我 这是我在这社会上的角色
And if you were to ask me to describe myself, I'd probably say some of those same things.	如果你要我自己来形容我， 我可能会说一些与上相同的东西。
And I wouldn't be lying, but I wouldn't totally be telling you the truth, either, because the truth is, that's just the life everyone else sees.	我不会说谎， 但也不会完全会告诉你真相， 因为事实是， 这就是其他人看到的人生。
In the life that only I see, who I am, who I really am, is someone who struggles intensely with depression.	另外一个人生只有我自己能看到 我是谁 我其实是 一个与抑郁症激烈斗争的人。
I have for the last six years of my life, and I continue to every day.	在生命中的近六年来 我与抑郁症斗争 也会在接下来的每一天内继续斗争。
Now, for someone who has never experienced depression or doesn't really know what that means, that might surprise them to hear, because there's this pretty popular misconception that depression is just being sad when something in your life goes wrong, when you break up with your girlfriend, when you lose a loved one, when you don't get the job you wanted.	对于从未经历过抑郁的人 或不太知道这是什么意思的人， 他们听到这些也许会感到诧异， 因为在社会上有普遍的误解认为说 抑郁症只是在当你生命中出了什么差错的时候 会难过， 当你和你的女朋友分手 当你失去心爱的人， 当你找不到理想的工作的时候。
But that's sadness. That's a natural thing.	但这只是悲伤。这是一件很自然的事情。
That's a natural human emotion.	这是自然的人类情感。
Real depression isn't being sad when something in your life goes wrong.	真正的抑郁不是 当你生命中出了差错的时候悲伤。
Real depression is being sad when everything in your life is going right.	真正的抑郁是 当你生活中的一切都好的时候悲伤。
That's real depression, and that's what I suffer from.	那才是真正的抑郁，而那才是我所遭受的。
And to be totally honest, that's hard for me to stand up here and say.	坦诚说， 出现在这里并且把它公之于众是一件很难的事。
It's hard for me to talk about, and it seems to be hard for everyone to talk about, so much so that no one's talking about it.	我很难去把它诉说， 这似乎也很难让每个人去谈这一点， 以至于没有人去谈它。
And no one's talking about depression, but we need to be, because right now it's a massive problem.	没有人会去谈抑郁， 但我们需要去谈论它 因为现在它一个很大的问题。
It's a massive problem.	这是一个巨大的问题。
But we don't see it on social media, right?	但我们并没有看到它出现在媒体上，对吗？
We don't see it on Facebook. We don't see it on Twitter.	我们没有在 Facebook 上看到它 我们也没有在 Twitter 上看到它。
We don't see it on the news, because it's not happy, it's not fun, it's not light.	我们也没有在新闻上看到它，因为它不是快乐的， 是不有趣的，也不是光明的。
And so because we don't see it, we don't see the severity of it.	于是，正因为我们看不到它， 所以我们没有意识到它的严重性。
But the severity of it and the seriousness of it is this: every 30 seconds, every 30 seconds, somewhere, someone in the world takes their own life because of depression, and it might be two blocks away, it might be two countries away, it might be two continents away, but it's happening, and it's happening every single day.	然而它的确很严重： 每隔 30 秒钟， 每隔 30 秒，在某个地方， 在这个世界上的某个人就在 因为抑郁而自杀， 它有可能是在两个街区之外， 它也可能在两个国家之外， 它可能是两个大洲之外， 但它正在发生， 而且每一天都在发生着。
And we have a tendency, as a society, to look at that and go, "So what?"	作为一个社会 我们有一种趋势， 看着这种情况会说，"那又怎样?"
So what? We look at that, and we go, "That's your problem.	那又怎样？我们知道这个情况然后说， "这是你的问题。
That's their problem."	这是他们的问题。"
We say we're sad and we say we're sorry, but we also say, "So what?"	我们说我们很难过，我们说我们感到很抱歉， 但我们还说，"那又怎样?"
Well, two years ago it was my problem, because I sat on the edge of my bed where I'd sat a million times before and I was suicidal.	好吧，两年前，它是我的问题， 因为我坐在我的床边 曾坐过千百万次的床边 想着要自杀。
I was suicidal, and if you were to look at my life on the surface, you wouldn't see a kid who was suicidal.	我有自杀倾向， 但如果你从表面上看我的生活， 你不会看到一个自杀倾向的孩子。
You'd see a kid who was the captain of his basketball team, the drama and theater student of the year, the English student of the year, someone who was consistently on the honor roll and consistently at every party.	你会看到一个篮球队队长、 今年戏剧班的学生、 今年学习英语的学生、 一个经常出现在荣誉榜上的 和一个经常出现在任何派对上的人。
So you would say I wasn't depressed, you would say I wasn't suicidal, but you would be wrong.	所以你会说我不是抑郁，你会说 我不是自杀，但你就错了。
You would be wrong. So I sat there that night beside a bottle of pills with a pen and paper in my hand and I thought about taking my own life and I came this close to doing it.	你就错了。所以我那天晚上坐在床上 旁边是一瓶药，我手上拿着纸笔 我想着要终结自己的生命 我差一点点就做了
I came this close to doing it.	我差点就这样做了。
And I didn't, so that makes me one of the lucky ones, one of the people who gets to step out on the ledge and look down but not jump, one of the lucky ones who survives.	然而我没有 所以我成为了幸运的一份子， 一个人从边缘中走下来的人 我从我的人生大楼向下看但并没有跳下去， 我是幸运活下来的人之一。
Well, I survived, and that just leaves me with my story, and my story is this: In four simple words, I suffer from depression.	嗯，我活下来了，那让我跟我的故事并存， 我的故事是： 简单的四个字，患抑郁症。
I suffer from depression, and for a long time, I think, I was living two totally different lives, where one person was always afraid of the other.	我患上抑郁症， 在很长时间，我想， 我在活着两个完全不同的人生， 一个总是害怕别人的人。
I was afraid that people would see me for who I really was, that I wasn't the perfect, popular kid in high school everyone thought I was, that beneath my smile, there was struggle, and beneath my light, there was dark, and beneath my big personality just hid even bigger pain.	我害怕人们会看到我真实的样子， 并不是一个每个人都认为我是的样子： 高中的风光小孩，我其实并不完美 在我的微笑下面是斗争， 在我的光明下面是黑暗， 在我的人格下藏着更深层次的痛苦。
See, some people might fear girls not liking them back.	比如有些人害怕喜欢的女生不喜欢他。
Some people might fear sharks. Some people might fear death.	有些人可能害怕鲨鱼。 有些人可能会害怕死亡。
But for me, for a large part of my life, I feared myself.	但对我来说， 我生命中的很大一部分是害怕我自己。
I feared my truth, I feared my honesty, I feared my vulnerability, and that fear made me feel like I was forced into a corner, like I was forced into a corner and there was only one way out, and so I thought about that way every single day.	我害怕真相，我害怕诚实，我害怕脆弱， 这种恐惧让我感觉到 就像我被被逼迫到一个角落里， 就像我被逼到角落里，只有一个出路， 于是，我每一天都这样想。
I thought about it every single day, and if I'm being totally honest, standing here I've thought about it again since, because that's the sickness, that's the struggle, that's depression, and depression isn't chicken pox.	我每一天都这样想， 如果我完全诚实的站在这里 我告诉你我有再次想过，因为这就是疾病， 这就是斗争，那是抑郁， 抑郁症不是水痘。
You don't beat it once and it's gone forever.	你不是抗争一次过，它就永远离开了。
It's something you live with. It's something you live in.	它跟你相依为命。它是你生命里的东西。
It's the roommate you can't kick out. It's the voice you can't ignore.	它是你不能踢出去的室友。它是你不能忽视的杂音。
It's the feelings you can't seem to escape, the scariest part is that after a while, you become numb to it. It becomes normal for you, and what you really fear the most isn't the suffering inside of you.	它是你不能逃脱的情感， 最可怕的是过了一段时间， 你变得麻木。它对于你来说已经很正常了， 你真正最害怕的 不是你内心的痛苦。
It's the stigma inside of others, it's the shame, it's the embarrassment, it's the disapproving look on a friend's face, it's the whispers in the hallway that you're weak, it's the comments that you're crazy.	这是在别人眼里的耻辱 它是耻辱，是尴尬， 它是朋友脸上不赞成的表情， 它是走廊的低语， 轻声说你太懦弱， 它是你疯了的评语。
That's what keeps you from getting help.	这就是让你得不到帮助的原因。
That's what makes you hold it in and hide it.	这就是让你它控制它和隐藏它的原因。
It's the stigma. So you hold it in and you hide it, and you hold it in and you hide it, and even though it's keeping you in bed every day and it's making your life feel empty no matter how much you try and fill it, you hide it, because the stigma in our society around depression is very real.	因为这是一种耻辱。 所以你控制它和隐藏它， 你控制它个隐藏它， 即使它让你每一天待在床上 它让你的人生感到空虚无论你怎样努力地去填补它， 你隐藏它，因为在我们的社会中 有关抑郁症的耻辱感是非常真实的。
It's very real, and if you think that it isn't, ask yourself this: Would you rather make your next Facebook status say you're having a tough time getting out of bed because you hurt your back or you're having a tough time getting out of bed every morning because you're depressed?	它很真实，如果你认为它不是，问问你自己： 你想让你的下一个 Facebook 状态是 说你很难下床 因为你背有伤 还是你很难下床 是因为你抑郁？
That's the stigma, because unfortunately, we live in a world where if you break your arm, everyone runs over to sign your cast, but if you tell people you're depressed, everyone runs the other way.	这是耻辱，因为不幸的是， 我们生活在一个如果你的胳膊伤了， 大家都跑过去要在你的石膏上签名， 但如果你告诉人们你抑郁， 每个人跑向了另外一边。
That's the stigma.	而这就是耻辱。
We are so, so, so accepting of any body part breaking down other than our brains. And that's ignorance.	我们是如此接受任何身体部位受损 除了我们的大脑。 这是一种无知。
That's pure ignorance, and that ignorance has created a world that doesn't understand depression, that doesn't understand mental health.	纯粹的无知，制造这种无知的是 一个不了解抑郁症的世界 不懂心理健康的世界。
And that's ironic to me, because depression is one of the best documented problems we have in the world, yet it's one of the least discussed.	对于我来说这很讽刺， 因为抑郁 是我们这世界上最有迹可循的问题之一 然而它是最少被讨论的话题之一。
We just push it aside and put it in a corner and pretend it's not there and hope it'll fix itself.	我们只是把它放到一边， 放到角落里 假装它不存在，并希望它就好了。
Well, it won't. It hasn't, and it's not going to, because that's wishful thinking, and wishful thinking isn't a game plan, it's procrastination, and we can't procrastinate on something this important.	它不会、它没有、也不即将要， 因为那只是一厢情愿， 一厢情愿不是一个游戏计划，它是拖沓， 而我们不能拖延这么重要的事情。
The first step in solving any problem is recognizing there is one.	解决任何问题的第一步 是认识到这一问题的存在。
Well, we haven't done that, so we can't really expect to find an answer when we're still afraid of the question.	我们还没能做到，所以我们不能期待 当我们还在害怕问题的时候找到答案。
And I don't know what the solution is.	我不知道该解决方案是什么。
I wish I did, but I don't -- but I think, I think it has to start here.	我希望我知道，但我不知道 但我认为， 我认为它已经在这里开始。
It has to start with me, it has to start with you, it has to start with the people who are suffering, the ones who are hidden in the shadows.	它和我一同开始， 它与你一同开始， 它与遭受过的人们一同开始， 那些被隐藏在阴影中的人们。
We need to speak up and shatter the silence.	我们需要说出来打破沉默。
We need to be the ones who are brave for what we believe in, because if there's one thing that I've come to realize, if there's one thing that I see as the biggest problem, it's not in building a world where we eliminate the ignorance of others.	我们需要成为那些为我们相信的事情而勇敢的人， 因为如果有一件事是我认识到的，那就是， 如果有一件事是我知道是最要紧的问题， 它并不是创造一个 我们消除他人的无知的世界。
It's in building a world where we teach the acceptance of ourselves, where we're okay with who we are, because when we get honest, we see that we all struggle and we all suffer.	而是创造一个我们接受自己的世界， 接受我们真实的自己， 因为当我们诚实面对的时候， 我们会看到我们所有的斗争和所有的苦难。
Whether it's with this, whether it's with something else, we all know what it is to hurt.	无论是抑郁症，还是别的事情， 我们都知道什么是痛苦的。
We all know what it is to have pain in our heart, and we all know how important it is to heal.	我们都知道我们的心中有苦 我们也知道去疗伤有多重要。
But right now, depression is society's deep cut that we're content to put a Band-Aid over and pretend it's not there.	但是现在，抑郁症是社会的伤口 我们习惯于把创口贴贴上就假装它不存在。
Well, it is there. It is there, and you know what? It's okay.	而它是存在的。而且你知道么？它并没什么。
Depression is okay. If you're going through it, know that you're okay.	抑郁症没什么。因为如果你克服了它，你就知道你没事。
And know that you're sick, you're not weak, and it's an issue, not an identity, because when you get past the fear and the ridicule and the judgment and the stigma of others, you can see depression for what it really is, and that's just a part of life, just a part of life, and as much as I hate, as much as I hate some of the places, some of the parts of my life depression has dragged me down to, in a lot of ways I'm grateful for it.	知道虽然你病了，但你并不脆弱， 它是一个问题，不是一个身份标签， 因为当你经历过你过去的恐惧和嘲笑 别人对你的看法和耻辱， 你就可以看到抑郁症真实的身份， 它只是生活的一部分， 只是生活的一部分，虽然我讨厌， 就像我讨厌的一些地方， 我生活的某一部分已经被抑郁症拖垮， 但在很多方面上我是非常感激的。
Because yeah, it's put me in the valleys, but only to show me there's peaks, and yeah it's dragged me through the dark but only to remind me there is light.	因为它是让我经历低谷， 但只是为了向我证明有高峰， 是的，它将我拉进了黑暗， 但只是为了提醒我有光。
My pain, more than anything in 19 years on this planet, has given me perspective, and my hurt, my hurt has forced me to have hope, have hope and to have faith, faith in myself, faith in others, faith that it can get better, that we can change this, that we can speak up and speak out and fight back against ignorance, fight back against intolerance, and more than anything, learn to love ourselves, learn to accept ourselves for who we are, the people we are, not the people the world wants us to be.	我的痛苦，比我在生活的十九年的任何事都能 给我看待事情的角度，而我的伤口 让我有了希望 有希望，有信念，对我自己的信念 对其他人的新年，可以更好的信念， 我们可以改变这一点，我们可以把它说出来 说出来与对抗无知， 反击不容忍， 还有一件比什么都重要的是，那就是， 学会爱自己， 学会接受我们自己， 我们不是别人想要我们成为的那个人。
Because the world I believe in is one where embracing your light doesn't mean ignoring your dark.	因为我相信在这个世界上 拥抱光明并不意味着忽略黑暗。
The world I believe in is one where we're measured by our ability to overcome adversities, not avoid them.	我相信的世界是一个我们被评判的标准是 我们克服逆境的能力，不是逃避它们。
The world I believe in is one where I can look someone in the eye and say, "I'm going through hell," and they can look back at me and go, "Me too," and that's okay, and it's okay because depression is okay. We're people.	我相信的世界是一个我可以看着某一个人的眼睛 并说，"我正在过着地狱般的生活，" 他们可以也看着我跟我说，"我也是" 这是可以接受的， 这没关系因为抑郁没什么。我们都是人。
We're people, and we struggle and we suffer and we bleed and we cry, and if you think that true strength means never showing any weakness, then I'm here to tell you you're wrong.	我们是人，我们斗争、我们遭受痛苦 我们流血、我们哭， 如果你认为真正的力量 代表从未有任何弱点，那么我在这里 要告诉你你错了。
You're wrong, because it's the opposite.	你错了，因为它是相反的。
We're people, and we have problems.	我们是人，我们会有问题。
We're not perfect, and that's okay.	我们不是完美的，而这没什么。
So we need to stop the ignorance, stop the intolerance, stop the stigma, and stop the silence, and we need to take away the taboos, take a look at the truth, and start talking, because the only way we're going to beat a problem that people are battling alone is by standing strong together, by standing strong together.	所以我们需要停止无知， 停止不容忍，停止蔑视， 和停止沉默， 我们需要打破禁忌， 真视真相，并开始说话， 因为唯一处理 人们单独作战的问题 就是坚强的站在一起， 坚强的站在一起。
And I believe that we can.	我相信我们可以。
I believe that we can. Thank you guys so much.	我相信我们可以。非常感谢。
This is a dream come true. Thank you.	我的梦想成真了。谢谢。
Thank you.	谢谢。
On March 14, this year, I posted this poster on Facebook.	今年3月14日 我在Facebook上发了这张海报
This is an image of me and my daughter holding the Israeli flag.	一张我和女儿的相片 （海报上写着：伊朗的朋友们， 我们爱你们） 她手里拿着一面以色列国旗
I will try to explain to you about the context of why and when I posted.	让我来解释一下是什么事情促使我做这张海报 和我在什么样时候贴出这张海报的
A few days ago, I was sitting waiting on the line at the grocery store, and the owner and one of the clients were talking to each other, and the owner was explaining to the client that we're going to get 10,000 missiles on Israel.	几天前我在一家杂货店 坐着排队 当时杂货店的老板和一名顾客 正在闲聊 老板对顾客说 以色列迟早将会遭受一万枚导弹的轰炸
And the client was saying, no, it's 10,000 a day.	顾客说：不，是每天一万枚
This is the context. This is where we are now in Israel.	这就是这张海报的来由 这就是以色列的现状
We have this war with Iran coming for 10 years now, and we have people, you know, afraid.	十年来 我们和伊朗之间的战争阴云一直驱之不散 这让人们的心中充满了...恐惧
It's like every year it's the last minute that we can do something about the war with Iran.	这些年我们总觉得如果我们不为和平作一些努力 战争将会一触即发
It's like, if we don't act now, it's too late forever, for 10 years now.	我们总觉得如果我们现在不采取行动 我们将追悔莫及 这种状况已经持续了整整10年了
So at some point it became, you know, to me, I'm a graphic designer, so I made posters about it and I posted the one I just showed you before.	他们的对话触动了我 我是一个平面设计师 所以我设计了一些呼吁和平的海报 刚才你们看到的就是其中之一
Most of the time, I make posters, I post them on Facebook, my friends like it, don't like it, most of the time don't like it, don't share it, don't nothing, and it's another day.	通常 我做好这些海报后就贴在 Facebook上就完事了 我的朋友的有的喜欢我的海报 有的不喜欢 我大部分的作品都没人喜欢 也没人分享 没人关心 直到有一天
So I went to sleep, and that was it for me.	我上完贴后就睡了 想着这些海报只是做给自己看
And later on in the night, I woke up because I'm always waking up in the night, and I went by the computer and I see all these red dots, you know, on Facebook, which I've never seen before.	可到半夜 我醒了过来 我常在半夜醒来 经过电脑时 我看到屏幕上有密密麻麻的红点 要知道 这在我的Facebook 上是从来没有过的情况
And I was like, "What's going on?"	我当时的反应是:"什么情况？"
So I come to the computer and I start looking on, and suddenly I see many people talking to me, most of them I don't know, and a few of them from Iran, which is -- What?	我坐到电脑前看发生了什么 我看到很多留言 他们当中绝大多数人我都不认识 里面竟然有伊朗人 真的太令人难以置信了
Because you have to understand, in Israel we don't talk with people from Iran.	因为你要知道 在以色列 我们从不和伊朗人交谈
We don't know people from Iran.	我们也不认识任何伊朗人
It's like, on Facebook, you have friends only from -- it's like your neighbors are your friends on Facebook.	以色列人在 Facebook 上的好友圈子 基本上也就是以色列人
And now people from Iran are talking to me.	但是现在我竟然在和伊朗人对话
So I start answering this girl, and she's telling me she saw the poster and she asked her family to come, because they don't have a computer, she asked her family to come to see the poster, and they're all sitting in the living room crying.	于是 我和这名伊朗女孩交谈起来 她告诉我 她看到海报之后叫全家人一起看了 因为她们家只有一台电脑 看完后一家人坐在客厅里哭了
So I'm like, whoa.	我当时觉得，"哇，太惊讶了。"
I ask my wife to come, and I tell her, you have to see that.	我叫醒妻子 跟她说"你一定要看看这个"
People are crying, and she came, she read the text, and she started to cry.	有一家伊朗人被我的海报弄哭了 我妻子看完留言后也哭了
And everybody's crying now.	大家全哭了
So I don't know what to do, so my first reflex, as a graphic designer, is, you know, to show everybody what I'd just seen, and people started to see them and to share them, and that's how it started.	我有点手足无措 而我作为一名平面设计师， 我的直接反应就是----让别人也看到我刚才所看到的一切 后来, 关注我的海报的人越来越多 并且开始分享转发我的海报 故事就这样开始了
The day after, when really it became a lot of talking, I said to myself, and my wife said to me, I also want a poster, so this is her.	第二天，围绕着该话题的讨论越来越多 我妻子对我说 "也给我做张海报"-----我们的想法不谋而合 瞧 这就是她
Because it's working, put me in a poster now.	我的海报引起了人们的关注
But more seriously, I was like, okay, these ones work, but it's not just about me, it's about people from Israel who want to say something.	但是细想一下 海报之所以引起关注 不是因为我自己，而是以色列公民 想要表达自己的想法
So I'm going to shoot all the people I know, if they want, and I'm going to put them in a poster and I'm going to share them.	于是我开始寻找身边愿意上海报的人 给他们拍照 做成海报 放到网络上分享这些海报
So I went to my neighbors and friends and students and I just asked them, give me a picture, I will make you a poster.	所以，我对我的邻居、朋友、学生说 "给我一张照片 我为你制一张海报"
And that's how it started. And that's how, really, it's unleashed, because suddenly people from Facebook, friends and others, just understand that they can be part of it.	就这样，我们开始做这些海报 可没想到,事情竟一发不可收拾 我Facebook 上的朋友、身边的朋友还有其他人 在意识到他们也可以为此做些事后全参与进来了
It's not just one dude making one poster, it's -- we can be part of it, so they start sending me pictures and ask me, "Make me a poster. Post it.	这并不是做一张海报的事情 而是人人都可以参与其中 所以他们开始给我发照片 并要求我，"帮我做张海报，贴出来。"
Tell the Iranians we from Israel love you too."	"告诉伊朗人我们以色列人爱他们。"
It became, you know, at some point it was really, really intense.	一下子做海报的工作量大得惊人
I mean, so many pictures, so I asked friends to come, graphic designers most of them, to make posters with me, because I didn't have the time.	我收到的照片太多了 所以我请了很多也是做平面设计的朋友 和我一起做海报 因为我实在应付不过来
It was a huge amount of pictures.	照片的数量非常巨大
So for a few days, that's how my living room was.	所以 那些天我的客厅就是这个样子的
And we received Israeli posters, Israeli images, but also lots of comments, lots of messages from Iran.	我们不仅收到以色列人的海报和照片 我们也收到很多伊朗人的评论和留言
And we took these messages and we made posters out of it, because I know people: They don't read, they see images.	然后 我们将这些留言做成海报贴出来 因为我深知: 人们都喜欢看图片,厌恶阅读文本
If it's an image, they may read it.	如果把留言做成图片，他们可能会去看。
So here are a few of them.	下面 我们来看一下我们做的一些海报
This one is really moving for me because it's the story of a girl who has been raised in Iran to walk on an Israeli flag to enter her school every morning, and now that she sees the posters that we're sending, she starts -- she said that she changed her mind, and now she loves that blue, she loves that star, and she loves that flag, talking about the Israeli flag, and she wished that we'd meet and come to visit one another, and just a few days after I posted the first poster.	（很高兴认识你！你是我第一个以色列人朋友。我希望我们不要被我们两国愚蠢的政客们操控着去做傻事了 （"我喜欢你们以色列国旗上的蓝色，喜欢那个六角星，喜欢这面旗帜。"） 这条评论真的让我很触动，因为这条评论来自于 这是一个在伊朗长大的 每天上学都踩踏着以色列国旗进入校园的小姑娘的留言 而现在她看了我们张贴的海报后 她说这改变了她的看法 她现在喜欢它（以色列国旗）的蓝色和它的六角星 她喜欢这面象征着以色列的旗帜， 她还希望我们能够有机会见面和互访 这些留言是在我贴出第一张海报几天之后留的
The day after, Iranians started to respond with their own posters.	这张海报贴出后的第二天 伊朗人开始贴出他们自己的海报回应我们
They have graphic designers. What?	他们也有平面设计师。不是吧？
Crazy, crazy.	这真是太不可思议了
So you can see they are still shy, they don't want to show their faces, but they want to spread the message.	你能看到他们还比较谨慎，他们没有把脸露出来， 但是他们想要表达他们的想法
They want to respond. They want to say the same thing.	他们想回应我们，他们的想法跟我们的是一样的。
So. And now it's communication.	现在，对话渠道已经建立起来了。
It's a two-way story. It's Israelis and Iranians sending the same message, one to each other.	这是双边对话，以色列人和伊朗人 相互给对方传达了同样内容的信息。
This never happened before, and this is two people supposed to be enemies, we're on the verge of a war, and suddenly people on Facebook are starting to say, "I like this guy. I love those guys."	（"我的以色列朋友们。我不恨你们。我不希望和你们打战。"） 这种对话在以前是从来没有过的事。我们一直处在战争边缘， 彼此都视对方为敌人 但是突然间他们开始在 Facebook 上相互说 "我喜欢这个人，我喜欢那些人。"
And it became really big at some point.	某种意义上这是一个很大的改变。
And then it became news.	后来，我们在网上的这些事引起了媒体的关注，成了新闻
Because when you're seeing the Middle East, you see only the bad news.	因为如果你关注中东，你会发现新闻中充斥着各种负消息
And suddenly, there is something that was happening that was good news. So the guys on the news, they say, "Okay, let's talk about this."	然后突然间，爆出了一条这样正面的消息 所以记者们开始关注 他们说，"嘿! 我们要报导这件事。"
And they just came, and it was so much, I remember one day, Michal, she was talking with the journalist, and she was asking him, "Who's gonna see the show?"And he said, "Everybody."	然后记者们就来采访了，很多很多记者 我记得有一天，米哈尔， 记者在采访她。她问记者， "谁会看这条新闻？" "所有人。"记者回答。
So she said, "Everybody in Palestine, in where? Israel?	她又问，"所有巴勒斯坦人？所有以色列人？"
Who is everybody?""Everybody."	"所有人是哪些人？" "就是所有人。"他们回答。
They said, "Syria?" "Syria."	"包括叙利亚？" "有叙利亚。"
"Lebanon?""Lebanon."	"包括黎巴嫩？" "有黎巴嫩。"
At some point, he just said, "40 million people are going to see you today.	过了一会儿，他说，"今天估计有4000万人看你的新闻。"
It's everybody." The Chinese.	"所有人。" 包括中国人。
And we were just at the beginning of the story.	而我们的故事才刚刚开始。
Something crazy also happened.	更疯狂的事情还在后头。
Every time a country started talking about it, like Germany, America, wherever, a page on Facebook popped up with the same logo with the same stories, so at the beginning we had "Iran-Loves-Israel," which is an Iranian sitting in Tehran, saying, "Okay, Israel loves Iran?	当任何一个国家的人开始谈论这个话题时， 无论是德国人，美国人，还是别的国家的人， 他们的Facebook上都会弹出一个有着统一图标 有着相同表达的页面 来看看这张"伊朗爱以色列"海报。一个在德黑兰的伊朗人看到我们的"以色列爱伊朗"后 他说 以色列爱伊朗吗？
I give you Iran-Loves-Israel."	那好，我来做一张"伊朗爱以色列"。
You have Palestine-Loves-Israel.	后来，还出现了"巴勒斯坦爱以色列"。
You have Lebanon that just -- a few days ago.	几天之前，又出现了黎巴嫩的版本。
And this whole list of pages on Facebook dedicated to the same message, to people sending their love, one to each other.	这是 Facebook 上有关这类信息的 网页的列表。 当我看到人们相互表达着他们的爱，
The moment I really understood that something was happening, a friend of mine told me, "Google the word 'Israel.'" And those were the first images on those days that popped up from Google when you were typing, "Israel" or "Iran."	那一刻我真正感觉到有些事情正在改变。 我的一个朋友跟我说， "Google一下'以色列'这个单词" 这些图片就是那一段时间 你在谷歌中搜索"伊朗"或者"以色列" 排在最靠前的搜索结果。
We really changed how people see the Middle East.	我们真的改变了人们对中东的看法。
Because you're not in the Middle East.	由于你们并不住在中东地区
You're somewhere over there, and then you want to see the Middle East, so you go on Google and you say, "Israel," and they give you the bad stuff.	而住在其它地区，当你想要了解中东的时候， 你就会登录Google网站，搜索"以色列"， 然后搜到的都是坏消息。
And for a few days you got those images.	但是有那么一段时间你看到的是这些正面的图片。
Today the Israel-Loves-Iran page is this number, 80,831, and two million people last week went on the page and shared, liked, I don't know, commented on one of the photos.	今天浏览"以色列爱伊朗"活动的页面 的人数达到80831人.。而上周超过两百万人 访问了该网页，浏览图片， 发表评论并分享了它们。
So for five months now, that's what we are doing, me, Michal, a few of my friends, are just making images.	这就是我们过去五个月做的工作， 我、米哈尔、我的几个朋友，每天就只做这些海报。
We're showing a new reality by just making images because that's how the world perceives us.	我们通过制作照片海报 向全世界展示我们的一些转变 照片是世界认识我们的主要方式。
They see images of us, and they see bad images.	他们看到的照片，基本上都是负面新闻的照片。
So we're working on making good images. End of story.	所以我们制作正面的照片。在故事的结尾，
Look at this one. This is the Iran-Loves-Israel page.	我们一起来看这幅照片，这是"伊朗爱以色列"版本的，
This is not the Israel-Loves-Iran. This is not my page.	不是"以色列爱伊朗"版本的。这不是我做的。
This is a guy in Tehran on the day of remembrance of the Israeli fallen soldier putting an image of an Israeli soldier on his page.	这是住在德黑兰的一个伊朗人在以色列 阵亡士兵纪念日那天 将一幅以色列士兵的照片贴在自己的页面上。
This is the enemy.	那可是敌兵的相片啊！
What?	怎么会这样？
And it's going both ways.	这并不是单向的。
It's like, we are showing respect, one to each other.	我们互相表达对对方的尊重，
And we're understanding. And you show compassion.	我们能理解，你们有热诚
And you become friends.	那我们就能成朋友。
And at some point, you become friends on Facebook, and you become friends in life.	过了一段时间，你们成了 Facebook 上的好友， 接着成为生活中的朋友。
You can go and travel and meet people.	你可能去旅行，去拜会他们。
And I was in Munich a few weeks ago.	我几周前去了慕尼黑。
I went there to open an exposition about Iran and I met there with people from the page that told me, "Okay, you're going to be in Europe, I'm coming. I'm coming from France, from Holland, from Germany," of course, and from Israel people came, and we just met there for the first time in real life.	我去举办一个关于伊朗的展览会 我在那里见到了 Facebook 上认识的新朋友 他们说:"如果你去欧洲 我也要过来见你，我从法国过来，我从荷兰过来， 我从德国过来，"当然还有以色列的朋友 在慕尼黑我们第一次见到了真实的对方。
I met with people that are supposed to be my enemies for the first time. And we just shake hands, and have a coffee and a nice discussion, and we talk about food and basketball.	我第一次见到了那些曾经被认为是我们的敌人的人。 我们相互握手， 我们一起喝咖啡，聊得很愉快， 我们聊食物和篮球。
And that was the end of it.	这是我们会面结束时的样子。
Remember that image from the beginning?	还记得一开始的那张海报么？
At some point we met in real life, and we became friends.	生命中某个时刻我们相遇，并成为了朋友。
And it goes the other way around.	又或者我们先在网络上成为朋友，再在现实中相遇。
Some girl that we met on Facebook never been in Israel, born and raised in Iran, lives in Germany, afraid of Israelis because of what she knows about us, decides after a few months of talking on the Internet with some Israelis to come to Israel, and she gets on the plane and arrives at Ben Gurion and says, "Okay, not that big a deal."	我在 Facebook 上认识一个女孩 她在伊朗出生、长大，现在住在德国， 从没去过以色列，曾经很害怕以色列人， 因为从小获得的知识就是这样的。 在网上跟一些以色列人聊了几个月之后 她决定到以色列看看。 她坐飞机抵达了本·古里安机场（以色列最大的机场） 然后说，"其实以色列人没那么可怕啊。"
So a few weeks ago, the stress is getting higher, so we start this new campaign called "Not ready to die in your war."	几周前，局势又变得紧张起来， 于是我们发起了一个的新的运动 叫做"我们不愿刀兵相见"
I mean, it's plus/minus the same message, but we wanted really to add some aggressivity to it.	这个跟之前要传达的信息没有太大的差别， 但是我们这次想要表现的更加的激进一点。
And again, something amazing happened, something that we didn't have on the first wave of the campaign.	跟之前一样，很多令人惊奇的事情发生了。 并且出现了上次活动没有出现过的奇妙的事情。
Now people from Iran, the same ones who were shy at the first campaign and just sent, you know, their foot and half their faces, now they're sending their faces, and they're saying, "Okay, no problem, we're into it. We are with you."	来自伊朗的人，在上次的活动中还很小心谨慎地 只是在网上贴出他们自己的脚 和半张脸的相片， 现在他们露了全脸，并且宣布， "OK，没问题，我们加入，让我们一起努力。"
Just read where those guys are from.	看看这些人来自哪里。
And for every guy from Israel, you've got someone from Iran.	现在我们看到有多少以色列人发贴 就有多少伊朗人跟贴
Just people sending their pictures.	人们不断地互发相片
Crazy, yes?	太疯狂了，不是么？
So -- So you may ask yourself, who is this dude?	所以 —— 你可能会好奇，做演讲的这个家伙是谁？
My name is Ronny Edry, and I'm 41, I'm an Israeli, I'm a father of two, I'm a husband, and I'm a graphic designer. I'm teaching graphic design.	我叫罗尼·艾德里，41岁，以色列人， 是两个孩子的父亲，米哈尔的丈夫 我是一名平面设计师,也教平面设计课
And I'm not that naive, because a lot of the time I've been asked, many times I've been asked, "Yeah, but, this is really naive, sending flowers over, I mean — " I was in the army. I was in the paratroopers for three years, and I know how it looks from the ground.	最后我想澄清一下我并不如人们说的那样很太真。因为有很多时候 人们问我，"想法挺不错的，但是， 你不觉得向敌人抛橄榄枝的做法很幼稚吗?" 我并不这样认为 我曾服过役，在伞兵部队呆过三年时间， 我深知地面上的人看伞兵是什么感受。
I know how it can look really bad.	我知道感觉可能会非常的糟糕。
So to me, this is the courageous thing to do, to try to reach the other side before it's too late, because when it's going to be too late, it's going to be too late.	所以对我而言，这件事情非常值得去做， 赶在一切都太迟之前，促进相互的了解。 因为有些事情一旦发生了，就没有办法再回头。
And sometimes war is inevitable, sometimes, but maybe [with] effort, we can avoid it.	有时，战争无法避免，但是有些时候 或许可以用我们的努力来避免。
Maybe as people, because especially in Israel, we're in a democracy. We have the freedom of speech, and maybe that little thing can change something.	或许作为一个公民，特别是作为以色列的公民， 因为我们是民主国家，我们有言论自由， 或许一点点的努力，真的能够改变一些事情。
And really, we can be our own ambassadors.	我们每个人都是自己的外交大使。
We can just send a message and hope for the best.	我们可以发出我们的信息，期待最好的结果。
So I want to ask Michal, my wife, to come with me on the stage just to make with you one image, because it's all about images.	现在我想请我的妻子，马哈尔，到舞台上来， 我俩会跟你们一起合一张影， 因为今天我们讲的全是相片的事
And maybe that image will help us change something.	或许这张合影能够帮助我们改变一点什么。
Just raise that. Exactly.	请大家举高一点，很好,就这样。
And I'm just going to take a picture of it, and I'm just going to post it on Facebook with kind of "Israelis for peace" or something.	我现在要拍一张照片， 我要把它贴到 Facebook 上 放在"以色列爱和平"或类似的分类下。
Oh my God.	天啊。
Don't cry.	不要哭。
Thank you guys.	谢谢你们。
Let's talk trash.	让我们来说说垃圾吧
You know, we had to be taught to renounce the powerful conservation ethic we developed during the Great Depression and World War II.	我们曾经被告知 要放弃在大萧条时期和二战时建立起来的 强有力的环境保护道德意识
After the war, we needed to direct our enormous production capacity toward creation of products for peacetime.	战争之后，我们需要把大量的生产力 转移到和平时期的生产上来
Life Magazine helped in this effort by announcing the introduction of throwaways that would liberate the housewife from the drudgery of doing dishes.	《生活杂志》在其中起了助推作用 宣称用完就丢的生活方式 以此将家庭主妇从洗涤碗碟的杂务中解放出来
Mental note to the liberators: throwaway plastics take a lot of space and don't biodegrade.	但这些被解放的人们应该铭记在心的是： 丢弃塑料占据了大量空间且不能生物降解
Only we humans make waste that nature can't digest.	只有我们人类才能制造出大自然不能消化的废物
Plastics are also hard to recycle.	塑料同样也很难回收利用
A teacher told me how to express the under-five-percent of plastics recovered in our waste stream.	一位老师告诉我，如果要形容 我们排放废物中不到5%的塑料垃圾回收率的话
It's diddly-point-squat.	可以用"diddle point squat"
That's the percentage we recycle.	而这就是塑料可怜的回收率
Now, melting point has a lot to do with this.	这与塑料的熔点有很大关系
Plastic is not purified by the re-melting process like glass and metal.	与玻璃和金属不同，塑料不能通过再熔化进行提炼
It begins to melt below the boiling point of water and does not drive off the oily contaminants for which it is a sponge.	在水沸点以下塑料便开始熔化 而且塑料会像海绵一样 吸附油性污染物
Half of each year's 100 billion pounds of thermal plastic pellets will be made into fast-track trash.	每年回炉生产的1000亿颗塑料小球中 有一半会很快又变成垃圾
A large, unruly fraction of our trash will flow downriver to the sea.	这些垃圾中的一大部分 将不可避免地经河流流入大海
Here is the accumulation at Biona Creek next to the L.A. airport.	这是洛杉矶机场附近Biona小湾内垃圾堆积的景象
And here is the flotsam near California State University Long Beach and the diesel plant we visited yesterday.	这是加州州立大学长滩分校附近的漂浮物 也是我们昨天参观的淡化水工厂所在地
In spite of deposit fees, much of this trash leading out to the sea will be plastic beverage bottles.	尽管有回收报酬 但流向海洋的塑料垃圾绝大多数还是饮料瓶
We use two million of them in the United States every five minutes, here imaged by TED presenter Chris Jordan, who artfully documents mass consumption and zooms in for more detail.	在美国，每五分钟我们就使用了两百万个饮料瓶 这张图片来自TED演讲者克里斯·乔丹 他巧妙地记录了我们消费掉的瓶子数目是多么巨大，这是放大后的细节
Here is a remote island repository for bottles off the coast of Baja California.	这个位于下加利福尼亚海域的偏远海岛 已经成为塑料瓶的"储藏库"
Isla San Roque is an uninhabited bird rookery off Baja's sparsely populated central coast.	无人居住的圣罗克岛是许多鸟类的栖息地 位于下加州人口稀少的中部海岸
Notice that the bottles here have caps on them.	请注意这些瓶子上都有瓶盖
Bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate, PET, will sink in seawater and not make it this far from civilization.	塑料瓶由聚对苯二甲酸乙二醇酯制成 会沉入海水而不会漂到这么偏远的地方
Also, the caps are produced in separate factories from a different plastic, polypropylene.	然而，瓶盖来自另一些的工厂 由一种称为聚丙烯的塑料制成
They will float in seawater, but unfortunately do not get recycled under the bottle bills.	它们会漂浮在海面上 不幸的是，瓶盖并不在退瓶法的回收名单中
Let's trace the journey of the millions of caps that make it to sea solo.	让我们追踪这数以百万计的瓶盖 看它们是如何漂向大海的
After a year the ones from Japan are heading straight across the Pacific, while ours get caught in the California current and first head down to the latitude of Cabo San Lucas.	一年时间里，来自日本的瓶盖横穿太平洋 我们的瓶盖则沿着加利福尼亚寒流漂行 起先到达的是卡波圣卢卡斯所在的纬度附近
After ten years, a lot of the Japanese caps are in what we call the Eastern Garbage Patch, while ours litter the Philippines.	10年之后，大多数来自日本的瓶盖 漂到了所谓的"东洋垃圾场" 而我们扔掉的瓶盖则堆积到了菲律宾
After 20 years, we see emerging the debris accumulation zone of the North Pacific Gyre.	20年之后，我们看到在北太平洋环流区 出现了塑料碎片堆积带
It so happens that millions of albatross nesting on Kure and Midway atolls in the Northwest Hawaiian Islands National Monument forage here and scavenge whatever they can find for regurgitation to their chicks.	在西北夏威夷群岛国家保护地的两个环礁 库尔环礁和中途岛环礁上 生活着数以百万计的信天翁 它们在这片海域觅食，吃下能找到的所有一切 然后再回吐给幼鸟
A four-month old Laysan Albatross chick died with this in its stomach.	这是一只四个月大的黑背信天翁幼鸟 它死的时候，胃里是这些东西
Hundreds of thousands of the goose-sized chicks are dying with stomachs full of bottle caps and other rubbish, like cigarette lighters ...	成千上万只鹅体形大小的幼鸟正在死亡线上挣扎 它们的胃里满是瓶盖和其他垃圾 如打火机……
but, mostly bottle caps.	但绝大部分是瓶盖
Sadly, their parents mistake bottle caps for food tossing about in the ocean surface.	不幸的是，它们的父母将漂在大海表面的瓶盖 误认为是食物
The retainer rings for the caps also have consequences for aquatic animals.	瓶盖下的扣环 也会给水生动物带来威胁
This is Mae West, still alive at a zookeeper's home in New Orleans.	这只龟名叫Mae West 现在仍生活在新奥尔良一位动物园管理员的家中
I wanted to see what my home town of Long Beach was contributing to the problem, so on Coastal Clean-Up Day in 2005 I went to the Long Beach Peninsula, at the east end of our long beach.	我想看看家乡长滩对这一问题作出的努力 因此，2005年的海岸清理日 我来到我们长滩市最东边的长滩半岛
We cleaned up the swaths of beach shown.	我们清理了这片狭长的沙滩
I offered five cents each for bottle caps.	每搜集一个瓶盖我付给5美分
I got plenty of takers.	许多人加入了行列
Here are the 1,100 bottle caps they collected.	这就是他们搜集的1100个瓶盖
I thought I would spend 20 bucks.	我想我要花上20美元
That day I ended up spending nearly 60.	而那天到最后我花了接近60美元
I separated them by color and put them on display the next Earth Day at Cabrillo Marine Aquarium in San Pedro.	我根据颜色将它们分类 并在接下来的地球日 在圣佩德罗的卡布里奥水族馆进行展览
Governor Schwarzenegger and his wife Maria stopped by to discuss the display.	施瓦辛格州长和妻子玛丽亚路过并与我们讨论了这次展览
In spite of my "girly man" hat, crocheted from plastic shopping bags, they shook my hand.	尽管我戴着用塑料购物袋编织成的女里女气的帽子 他们还是与我握了手
I showed him and Maria a zooplankton trawl from the gyre north of Hawaii with more plastic than plankton.	我给他和玛丽亚看了个浮游动物拖网 在夏威夷北部的涡流处 塑料的量比浮游生物还多
Here's what our trawl samples from the plastic soup our ocean has become look like.	这就是在我们逐渐变成塑料汤的海洋中拖网得到的样品
Trawling a zooplankton net on the surface for a mile produces samples like this.	在海面用浮游动物拖网拖动一英里 得到的样品就像这个
And this.	和这个
Now, when the debris washes up on the beaches of Hawaii it looks like this.	当塑料碎片冲上夏威夷沙滩的时候 看起来是这样的
And this particular beach is Kailua Beach, the beach where our president and his family vacationed before moving to Washington.	而这里就是凯鲁亚沙滩 我们的总统一家在前往华盛顿之前度假的那个沙滩
Now, how do we analyze samples like this one that contain more plastic than plankton?	那么，我们是如何通过这些样品 分析得出塑料比浮游生物还多的结论呢？
We sort the plastic fragments into different size classes, from five millimeters to one-third of a millimeter.	我们将塑料碎片按体积大小分成不同类别 从5毫米到1/3毫米
Small bits of plastic concentrate persistent organic pollutants up to a million times their levels in the surrounding seawater.	少量塑料上浓缩的持续性有机污染物浓度 比周围海水高出一百万倍
We wanted to see if the most common fish in the deep ocean, at the base of the food chain, was ingesting these poison pills.	我们想知道，深海里最普通的鱼类 位于食物链底部 是否也会吞下这些毒药丸
We did hundreds of necropsies, and over a third had polluted plastic fragments in their stomachs.	我们做了数百例"尸体检验" 在超过三分之一的鱼体胃里面都发现了塑料碎片
The record-holder, only two-and-a-half inches long, had 84 pieces in its tiny stomach.	最高的记录来自一条仅2.5英寸的小鱼 它小小的胃里有84块塑料碎片
Now, you can buy certified organic produce.	你可以买到经过认证的有机制品
But no fishmonger on Earth can sell you a certified organic wild-caught fish.	但没有一个鱼贩 能卖给你一条经过认证的有机的，野生捕捉的鱼
This is the legacy we are leaving to future generations.	这就是我们为子孙后代留下的遗产
The throwaway society cannot be contained -- it has gone global.	一个无法控制的"用完就扔"的社会 已经成为全球问题
We simply cannot store and maintain or recycle all our stuff.	我们实在没办法储存或回收所有生产的东西
We have to throw it away.	我们必须把它们扔掉
Now, the market can do a lot for us, but it can't fix the natural system in the ocean we've broken.	现在，我们能利用市场做很多事情 但市场不能修补我们已经破坏了的海洋自然系统
All the king's horses and all the king's men ...	即使投入所有的人力物力
will never gather up all the plastic and put the ocean back together again.	也永远无法把海洋里所有的塑料垃圾清理干净
Narrator : The levels are increasing, the amount of packaging is increasing, the "throwaway" concept of living is proliferating, and it's showing up in the ocean.	情况正在恶化 塑料包装的数量不断增加 "用完就扔"的生活方式大行其道 危害已经波及到了海洋
Anchor: He offers no hope of cleaning it up.	主持人：他对把海洋清理干净感到希望渺茫
Straining the ocean for plastic would be beyond the budget of any country and it might kill untold amounts of sea life in the process.	把塑料从海水中过滤出来的成本 将超出任何国家的预算 过程中也可能导致海洋生物的死亡
The solution, Moore says, is to stop the plastic at its source: stop it on land before it falls in the ocean.	摩尔说，解决的方法要从塑料的来源着手 将塑料控制在陆地上，阻止其流入海洋
And in a plastic-wrapped and packaged world, he doesn't hold out much hope for that, either.	而身处一个被塑料袋和塑料包装包围的世界 他对此也不抱太大希望
This is Brian Rooney for Nightline, in Long Beach, California.	这是布莱恩·鲁尼的《夜线》节目 发自加利福尼亚长滩市
Charles Moore: Thank you.	查尔斯·摩尔：谢谢。
How do you feed a city?	如何喂养一个城市？
It's one of the great questions of our time.	这是我们这个时代的一个重大问题之一。
Yet it's one that's rarely asked.	然而很少人会问这个问题。
We take it for granted that if we go into a shop or restaurant, or indeed into this theater's foyer in about an hour's time, there is going to be food there waiting for us, having magically come from somewhere.	我们习以为常了， 我们走进商店的时候 走进餐厅的时候，或是一个小时后我们进入这个剧院的门厅 总会有食物等着我们 它们很神奇地从某个地方冒出来
But when you think that every day for a city the size of London, enough food has to be produced, transported, bought and sold, cooked, eaten, disposed of, and that something similar has to happen every day for every city on earth, it's remarkable that cities get fed at all.	然而，当你想像每一天，在一个伦敦那么大的城市， 要生产足够的食物 运输、交易这些食物， 烹饪，食用，最后扔弃它们 而且类似的事情每天都发生着 在地球上的每一个城市都如此 每个城市都有食物供应，这件事很不可思议
We live in places like this as if they're the most natural things in the world, forgetting that because we're animals and that we need to eat, we're actually as dependent on the natural world as our ancient ancestors were.	我们住在每天有食物供应的城市，仿佛 这是世界上最自然的事情， 我们忘记了我们也是动物， 所以我们需要进食， 事实上我们要依赖自然界 就如同我们的祖先要依赖自然界一样。
And as more of us move into cities, more of that natural world is being transformed into extraordinary landscapes like the one behind me -- it's soybean fields in Mato Grosso in Brazil -- in order to feed us.	随着我们越来越多人到城市生活， 越来越多的自然界正在 变成我身后的这些特别的景象 这是巴西Mata Grosso的大豆田 用来种食物养活我们
These are extraordinary landscapes, but few of us ever get to see them.	这些特别的景象 我们很少人亲眼目睹过
And increasingly these landscapes are not just feeding us either.	越来越多的这些地貌 不只是生产食物养活我们
As more of us move into cities, more of us are eating meat, so that a third of the annual grain crop globally now gets fed to animals rather than to us human animals.	随着我们越来越多人移居城市 越来越多人吃肉 所以每年全球有三分之一的粮食 现在是用来喂动物 而不是喂养我们人类
And given that it takes three times as much grain -- actually ten times as much grain -- to feed a human if it's passed through an animal first, that's not a very efficient way of feeding us.	虽然说需要3倍的粮食 事实上却是10倍的食物 来喂养一个人，如果从喂养动物的粮食也计算在内 这并不是一个很有效率的喂养方式
And it's an escalating problem too.	这是一个越来越重要的问题
By 2050, it's estimated that twice the number of us are going to be living in cities.	到2050年,预测有两倍的人口 将在城市居住
And it's also estimated that there is going to be twice as much meat and dairy consumed.	预测到也将需要两倍的 肉和奶类制品的消耗
So meat and urbanism are rising hand in hand.	所以肉的消耗和城市化是共同发展的
And that's going to pose an enormous problem.	这就将引发一个很重大的问题
Six billion hungry carnivores to feed, by 2050.	要喂养60亿的饥饿人口 在2050年
That's a big problem. And actually if we carry on as we are, it's a problem we're very unlikely to be able to solve.	这是个大问题.如果我们还像我们现在这么发展, 我们很可能没法在2050年解决这个问题
Nineteen million hectares of rainforest are lost every year to create new arable land.	每年有1900万公顷的雨林消失 它们用作开垦新的耕地
Although at the same time we're losing an equivalent amount of existing arables to salinization and erosion.	尽管与此同时我们也失去等量的 现有耕地,因为盐碱化或水土流失
We're very hungry for fossil fuels too.	我们也急需化石燃料
It takes about 10 calories to produce every calorie of food that we consume in the West.	在欧洲，我们需要10卡路里的能量来生产1卡路里 为我们消耗的食物
And even though there is food that we are producing at great cost, we don't actually value it.	尽管这些食物我们都是花了很多功夫才生产出来 事实上我们却不珍惜它们
Half the food produced in the USA is currently thrown away.	在美国有一半食物被扔弃
And to end all of this, at the end of this long process, we're not even managing to feed the planet properly.	最终,在这漫长过程的最后 我们将没法养活我们这个地球
A billion of us are obese, while a further billion starve.	我们中10亿人肥胖,还有多于10亿的人处于饥饿中
None of it makes very much sense.	这些都没有道理
And when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations, it's a grim picture.	当你发现现在80%的全球食物贸易 仅由五家跨国公司控制, 这是挺可怕的
As we're moving into cities, the world is also embracing a Western diet.	随着我们搬进城市,世界正在接受西方的饮食
And if we look to the future, it's an unsustainable diet.	如果我们展望未来 这不是个可持续的饮食方式
So how did we get here?	我们怎么会走到这一步?
And more importantly, what are we going to do about it?	更重要的是,我们应该怎么做?
Well, to answer the slightly easier question first, about 10,000 years ago, I would say, is the beginning of this process in the ancient Near East, known as the Fertile Crescent.	先回答那个较简单的问题,首先 我想说,在大概1万年前 是这个过程的开始 在古代的中东地区 也就是广大的新月状的地区
Because, as you can see, it was crescent shaped.	因为你可以看到它是新月形的
And it was also fertile.	同时它也是广大的
And it was here, about 10,000 years ago, that two extraordinary inventions, agriculture and urbanism, happened roughly in the same place and at the same time.	就在这里,大概1万年前 2大伟大的发明 农业和城市化在此发生 几乎在同时,同一地点
This is no accident, because agriculture and cities are bound together. They need each other.	这并不是偶然 因为农业和城市是紧密联系的.它们需要彼此
Because it was discovery of grain by our ancient ancestors for the first time that produced a food source that was large enough and stable enough to support permanent settlements.	因为粮食的发现 我们的远古祖先,第一次 第一次生产出足够的粮食 并且产量稳地，这帮助他们长期居住下来
And if we look at what those settlements were like, we see they were compact.	如果我们看一下当时那些居住地 我们可以看到他们是紧密的
They were surrounded by productive farm land and dominated by large temple complexes like this one at Ur, that were, in fact, effectively, spiritualized, central food distribution centers.	他们被农田围绕 并由一些大的庙宇统领着 例如这一个在乌尔的神殿 事实上,他们是很有效的 精神统领,食物分发中心，两者结合
Because it was the temples that organized the harvest, gathered in the grain, offered it to the gods, and then offered the grain that the gods didn't eat back to the people.	因为这些神殿组织耕作 收集这些粮食,供奉给诸神 然后把诸神没吃的食物发还给人们
So, if you like, the whole spiritual and physical life of these cities was dominated by the grain and the harvest that sustained them.	所以 这些城市的精神和物质生活 都用粮食和收成掌控 并维持城市的生活
And in fact, that's true of every ancient city.	事实上，过去的每个城市都是如此
But of course not all of them were that small.	当然，并不是每个都是那么小的城市
Famously, Rome had about a million citizens by the first century A.D.	比如很著名的罗马城有大约100万居民 在公元一世纪的之前
So how did a city like this feed itself?	那么，这样的城市是如何维持供给的呢？
The answer is what I call "ancient food miles."	在我眼里，我把答案称作"古老的城市之路"
Basically, Rome had access to the sea, which made it possible for it to import food from a very long way away.	基本上，罗马有通往海洋的道路 这样使从很远的地方进口食物成为可能
This is the only way it was possible to do this in the ancient world, because it was very difficult to transport food over roads, which were rough.	这样是在古代能实现的唯一的方法 因为陆上运输相当困难 鉴于路况不好
And the food obviously went off very quickly.	而且食物的消耗是很快的
So Rome effectively waged war on places like Carthage and Egypt just to get its paws on their grain reserves.	所以罗马常常发动战争 攻打像迦太基和埃及那样的国家 仅仅是为了得到他们的粮食储备
And, in fact, you could say that the expansion of the Empire was really sort of one long, drawn out militarized shopping spree, really.	其实，事实上，你可以把帝国的扩张 理解为一种长期的 军事化的购物狂欢
In fact -- I love the fact, I just have to mention this: Rome in fact used to import oysters from London, at one stage. I think that's extraordinary.	事实上，我喜欢这个事实。我不得不指出的是 罗马（从英国进口牡蛎） 在一个时期。我认为这非常特别
So Rome shaped its hinterland through its appetite.	所以罗马形成自己的海岸线 根据他的口味
But the interesting thing is that the other thing also happened in the pre-industrial world.	但是还有一件有趣的事情 发生在前工业化的世界
If we look at a map of London in the 17th century, we can see that its grain, which is coming in from the Thames, along the bottom of this map.	如果我们看看十七世纪伦敦的地图 我们可以看见作物从泰晤士河畔出产的 位于地图的底部
So the grain markets were to the south of the city.	因为市场在城市的南部
And the roads leading up from them to Cheapside, which was the main market, were also grain markets.	道路从那里 通向主要消费市场戚普塞街 这里也是粮食的主要消费市场
And if you look at the name of one of those streets, Bread Street, you can tell what was going on there 300 years ago.	如果我们随便看看这里的一条街道的名字 BREAD街，你可以明白 三百年前这里都发生了什么
And the same of course was true for fish.	这个道理同样使用于鱼类
Fish was, of course, coming in by river as well. Same thing.	鱼当然是从河里面打捞出来的
And of course Billingsgate, famously, was London's fish market, operating on-site here until the mid-1980s.	Billlingsgate是伦敦有名的卖鱼市场 在1980年之前
Which is extraordinary, really, when you think about it.	这是很特别的，真的，当你仔细想想
Everybody else was wandering around with mobile phones that looked like bricks and sort of smelly fish happening down on the port.	每个人都在这里游荡 拿着像转头一样的大哥大 还有，在港口还有发臭的鱼
This is another thing about food in cities: Once its roots into the city are established, they very rarely move.	这是在城市中关于食物的另一件事情 一旦一种食物在某个城市站稳脚跟 它的地位很难被动摇
Meat is a very different story because, of course, animals could walk into the city.	肉是一个非常不同的故事了 因为，动物自己走向城市
So much of London's meat was coming from the northwest, from Scotland and Wales.	因此，伦敦消费的大量肉类 是从西北方过来的 从苏格兰和威尔士
So it was coming in, and arriving at the city at the northwest, which is why Smithfield, London's very famous meat market, was located up there.	当他们过来，抵达城市的西北方 这就说明了为什么 Smithfield 伦敦一个非常有名的肉类市场，在这里产生
Poultry was coming in from East Anglia and so on, to the northeast.	家禽从Anglia的东部来，去往东北部
I feel a bit like a weather woman doing this. Anyway, and so the birds were coming in with their feet protected with little canvas shoes.	我感觉这有点像一个天气播报员 然后鸟儿都飞过来了 它们的脚被小帆布鞋包裹着
And then when they hit the eastern end of Cheapside, that's where they were sold, which is why it's called Poultry.	然后当它们在东部降落的时候 具体说来是在戚普塞街，也就是它们被卖掉的地方 这也就是戚普塞街被称为"家禽"街的原因
And, in fact, if you look at the map of any city built before the industrial age, you can trace food coming in to it.	事实上，如果你看看任何一个城市的地图 在工业化时代之前 你能够发现食物是如何进入城市的
You can actually see how it was physically shaped by food, both by reading the names of the streets, which give you a lot of clues.	事实上，你可以看出食物是如何塑造一个城市的 通过阅读街道的名称，你就会发现很多线索
Friday Street, in a previous life, is where you went to buy your fish on a Friday.	星期五街，在过去的日子中 是一个在星期五买鱼的地方
But also you have to imagine it full of food.	但是，你同时也必须想象那里到处都是食物
Because the streets and the public spaces were the only places where food was bought and sold.	因为街道和公共区域 是食物买卖的唯一地点
And if we look at an image of Smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from.	如果你想象一下1830年的Smithfield 你会发现很难在这样一个城市里面生活下去 并且不留意食物的来源
In fact, if you were having Sunday lunch, the chances were it was mooing or bleating outside your window about three days earlier.	事实上，当你在星期日吃午饭的时候 你将很有可能听到窗外的牛羊的叫声 在三年以前
So this was obviously an organic city, part of an organic cycle.	因此，显然他是一个有机城市 属于有机循环中的一个部分
And then 10 years later everything changed.	但是，10年后，一切都改变了
This is an image of the Great Western in 1840.	这是大西铁路在1840的照片
And as you can see, some of the earliest train passengers were pigs and sheep.	你可以看见，一些早期的铁路乘客们 是猪和羊群
So all of a sudden, these animals are no longer walking into market.	一夕之间，这些动物不再走进市场
They're being slaughtered out of sight and mind, somewhere in the countryside.	他们被屠宰了 在乡村的某个地方
And they're coming into the city by rail.	然后他们通过铁路来到了城市
And this changes everything.	这些改变了一切
To start off with, it makes it possible for the first time to grow cities, really any size and shape, in any place.	首先，他第一次 使城市成长变成了可能 不论地点、成为什么规模和形状的城市
Cities used to be constrained by geography; they used to have to get their food through very difficult physical means.	城市发展过去受到地理的限制 城市需要通过很艰难的方式获得食物
All of a sudden they are effectively emancipated from geography.	突然，他们从地理限制中解放了出来
And as you can see from these maps of London, in the 90 years after the trains came, it goes from being a little blob that was quite easy to feed by animals coming in on foot, and so on, to a large splurge, that would be very, very difficult to feed with anybody on foot, either animals or people.	你可以看看伦敦的地图 在铁路建成后的90年 它从容易喂饱的一小点 通过动物步行到市场等方式 成长成为大型的奢侈的大都市 步行运输再也不能喂饱每个人 不论是对人还是对动物
And of course that was just the beginning. After the trains came cars, and really this marks the end of this process.	当然，这仅仅是开始。当汽车代替了火车 这真正标志这个过程的结束
It's the final emancipation of the city from any apparent relationship with nature at all.	这是城市的最终解放 从自然的束缚中完全的解放了
And this is the kind of city that's devoid of smell, devoid of mess, certainly devoid of people, because nobody would have dreamed of walking in such a landscape.	这样类型的城市没有了原来城市的味道 乱糟糟的市容，当然也缺少了人 因为没有人想要在这么大的一块地方步行
In fact, what they did to get food was they got in their cars, drove to a box somewhere on the outskirts, came back with a week's worth of shopping, and wondered what on earth to do with it.	事实上，他们都开小汽车去购买食物了 开车去郊外的超级市场 买回来一周需要的食物 然后考虑到底如何规划这些食品
And this really is the moment when our relationship, both with food and cities, changes completely.	这时刻， 食物和城市的关系，完全的改变了
Here we have food -- that used to be the center, the social core of the city -- at the periphery.	过去买食物是在市中心 在城市的最核心地带
It used to be a social event, buying and selling food.	买卖食物曾经是一种社会性的活动，
Now it's anonymous.	现在都是匿名了的
We used to cook; now we just add water, or a little bit of an egg if you're making a cake or something.	我们原来还需要烹饪，现在我们只需要加水 或者是一些鸡蛋，当我们在做蛋糕或者其他东西的时候
We don't smell food to see if it's okay to eat.	我们不会在去闻闻食物来确认它是否可以吃了
We just read the back of a label on a packet.	我们只是阅读包装袋上的使用说明就好
And we don't value food. We don't trust it.	我们没有发现食物的价值，我们也不信赖它
So instead of trusting it, we fear it.	我们甚至担心它
And instead of valuing it, we throw it away.	从体会它的价值变成浪费
One of the great ironies of modern food systems is that they've made the very thing they promised to make easier much harder.	当今食品工业最最讽刺的是 他们让生活极致地便利 却也使得一切更为复杂
By making it possible to build cities anywhere and any place, they've actually distanced us from our most important relationship, which is that of us and nature.	因为可以自由的建立新城市 但是他们却疏远了人可贵的联系 也就是人与自然的联系
And also they've made us dependent on systems that only they can deliver, that, as we've seen, are unsustainable.	同时，他们也让我们依赖这个系统 这个系统，在我们看来，是不可持续的
So what are we going to do about that?	所以，我们应该做点什么呢？
It's not a new question.	这不是一个新的问题
500 years ago it's what Thomas More was asking himself.	500年前，汤马斯摩尔曾经问过自己
This is the frontispiece of his book "Utopia."	这是他的书《乌托邦》的主旨
And it was a series of semi-independent city-states, if that sounds remotely familiar, a day's walk from one another where everyone was basically farming-mad, and grew vegetables in their back gardens, and ate communal meals together, and so on.	它是一个半独立的城邦 如果这么说听上去还比较熟悉的话 一天的行走你会看见所有人农场都在疯狂的种植 或者在自己的后院种植蔬菜 然后一起享用乡镇的共有食物，等等
And I think you could argue that food is a fundamental ordering principle of Utopia, even though More never framed it that way.	我认为你可能想要说 食物是乌托邦维持秩序的基础 尽管摩尔从来没有这么构想
And here is another very famous "Utopian" vision, that of Ebenezer Howard, "The Garden City."	这里有一个很著名的乌托邦蓝图 来自埃比尼泽·霍华德的"花园城市"
Same idea: series of semi-independent city-states, little blobs of metropolitan stuff with arable land around, joined to one another by railway.	同样的想法。一系列半独立的城邦 小型都市被可耕地包围 相互之间通过铁路连接
And again, food could be said to be the ordering principle of his vision.	当然，食物在一次被称作 维持秩序的物体，在他的版本中
It even got built, but nothing to do with this vision that Howard had.	这些田园都市是有的，但与当初 霍华的愿景没有关系
And that is the problem with these Utopian ideas, that they are Utopian.	这也与乌托邦的构想产生了冲突 因为他们是乌托邦
Utopia was actually a word that Thomas Moore used deliberately.	乌托邦实际是上一个托马斯摩尔故意使用的一个词
It was a kind of joke, because it's got a double derivation from the Greek.	这似乎是一个笑话。因为它在希腊中有两个来历
It can either mean a good place, or no place.	他既可以表示一个好的地方，也可以表示一个不存在的地方
Because it's an ideal. It's an imaginary thing. We can't have it.	因为他是一种理想。一个想象中的事物。我们不能拥有它
And I think, as a conceptual tool for thinking about the very deep problem of human dwelling, that makes it not much use.	我认为，这是一个观念 用来深层次的思考人类居住的问题 它不是很有用
So I've come up with an alternative, which is Sitopia, from the ancient Greek, "sitos" for food, and "topos" for place.	所以我提出另一个概念 "希托邦"，在古希腊文中 "希托"代表食物，"邦"是地方
I believe we already live in Sitopia.	我相信我们已经住在"希托邦"里面
We live in a world shaped by food, and if we realize that, we can use food as a really powerful tool -- a conceptual tool, design tool, to shape the world differently.	这个世界是受食物影响的 只要认清楚这个事实，食物便能成为有力的工具 一个概念性的工具，设计工具，用来改变这个世界
So if we were to do that, what might Sitopia look like?	如果这样做，希托邦会成什么样
Well I think it looks a bit like this.	我是这样想的
I have to use this slide. It's just the look on the face of the dog.	我用投影这张照片，是因为这狗长相可爱
But anyway, this is -- it's food at the center of life, at the center of family life, being celebrated, being enjoyed, people taking time for it.	无论如何，在这里 食物是生活的重心 是家庭生活的重心，被赞颂 被享用，你们花时间在这上面
This is where food should be in our society.	这是食物在我们社会里应有的地位
But you can't have scenes like this unless you have people like this.	但想做到这样，得先有这些人
By the way, these can be men as well.	他也可以是男的
It's people who think about food, who think ahead, who plan, who can stare at a pile of raw vegetables and actually recognize them.	这些人是会想到食物的 他们会预先思考，做计划 看到一堆生菜时 知道那是什么
We need these people. We're part of a network.	我们需要这种人。我们都是整体的一部分
Because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this.	因为如果没有这样的人，就不会有这样的地方
Here, I deliberately chose this because it is a man buying a vegetable.	我故意选了这个因为这张照片显示一个人在买蔬菜
But networks, markets where food is being grown locally.	但是整体联络，食物是当地生产的
It's common. It's fresh.	他是大面积的，也是新鲜的
It's part of the social life of the city.	这是城市社会生活的一部分
Because without that, you can't have this kind of place, food that is grown locally and also is part of the landscape, and is not just a zero-sum commodity off in some unseen hell-hole.	因为没有它，你就不会拥有这样的地方 种植食物的地方也是风景的一部分 他不仅仅是一个消费商品 来自看不见的黑暗角落
Cows with a view.	成片的牛群
Steaming piles of humus.	冒着水汽的肥沃土壤
This is basically bringing the whole thing together.	这才使一切变得完整
And this is a community project I visited recently in Toronto.	这是一个集体的计划 我最近去了多伦多
It's a greenhouse, where kids get told all about food and growing their own food.	在这个温室里，孩子学习 关于食物的知识，以及他们种植自己所需的食物
Here is a plant called Kevin, or maybe it's a plant belonging to a kid called Kevin. I don't know.	这有一颗菜叫做凯文，他也许 属于一个叫凯文的小孩子。我不太确定
But anyway, these kinds of projects that are trying to reconnect us with nature is extremely important.	但是不管怎么说，这类计划 是及其重要的，因为他们试图重新建立我们和自然的联系
So Sitopia, for me, is really a way of seeing.	因此，希托邦，是另一种观点
It's basically recognizing that Sitopia already exists in little pockets everywhere.	基本上，我们认可在某些小地方 希托邦已经存在了
The trick is to join them up, to use food as a way of seeing.	下一步就是将他们连接起来 从食物的角度看
And if we do that, we're going to stop seeing cities as big, metropolitan, unproductive blobs, like this.	如果我们这样做了，城市将不再是 一个不从事生产的大都市，像现在一样
We're going to see them more like this, as part of the productive, organic framework of which they are inevitably a part, symbiotically connected.	我们将把城市 作为一个有机生产的一部分 在这种架构下，城乡之间 以一种共生的方式连接
But of course, that's not a great image either, because we need not to be producing food like this anymore.	但这也不是什么大理论 因为我们不需要这样的食物产出方式了
We need to be thinking more about permaculture, which is why I think this image just sums up for me the kind of thinking we need to be doing.	我们需要更多的思考关于社区生态农业 所以这张图 很合适来做一个结论
It's a re-conceptualization of the way food shapes our lives.	我们需要重新思考 食物如何塑造我们的生活
The best image I know of this is from 650 years ago.	我知道的最好的方式是这张650年前的画
It's Ambrogio Lorenzetti's "Allegory of Good Government."	他是 Ambrogio Lorenzetti 提出的"优秀政府的寓言"
It's about the relationship between the city and the countryside.	他勾画出城市和乡村的关系
And I think the message of this is very clear.	我认为他想传达的思想非常清晰
If the city looks after the country, the country will look after the city.	如果城市照顾好乡村 乡村就会帮助城市
And I want us to ask now, what would Ambrogio Lorenzetti paint if he painted this image today?	我希望大家都想一想 如果Ambrigio Lorenzetti在今天再画一张 他会画出怎样的图画
What would an allegory of good government look like today?	现代版"优秀政府的寓言"会是什么样子
Because I think it's an urgent question.	因为我认为这是一个紧要的问题
It's one we have to ask, and we have to start answering.	一个我们必须提出的问题 一个我们需要马上做答的问题
We know we are what we eat.	我们知道我们吃的东西很大程度上决定了我们身体状况
We need to realize that the world is also what we eat.	所以，我们也了解我们的食物决定了世界的状况
But if we take that idea, we can use food as a really powerful tool to shape the world better.	如果我们采纳这个想法，我们可以利用食物 作为一个强有力的工具来重新塑造世界
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
This is about a place in London called Kiteflyer's Hill where I used to go and spend hours going "When is he coming back? When is he coming back?"	这是关于伦敦的一个地方 名叫风筝山 我曾经在那里一待几个小时 念着"他什么时候回来？他什么时候回来？"
So this is another one dedicated to that guy ...	所以这又是一首关于那个人的歌
who I've got over.	不过那已经是过去的事了。
But this is "Kiteflyer's Hill."	这是一首 "风筝山"
It's a beautiful song written by a guy called Martin Evan, actually, for me.	这首美丽的歌是一个名叫马丁·伊万的人 为我而作的。
Boo Hewerdine, Thomas Dolby, thank you very much for inviting me. It's been a blessing singing for you.	布·霍丁，托马斯·多比。 非常感谢你们的邀请。很开心为你们演唱。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
Do you remember when we used to go up to Kiteflyer's Hill? Those summer nights, so still with all of the city beneath us and all of our lives ahead before cruel and foolish words were cruelly and foolishly said Some nights I think of you and then I go up on Kiteflyer's Hill wrapped up against the winter chill And somewhere in the city beneath me you lie asleep in your bed and I wonder if ever just briefly do I creep in your dreams now and then Where are you now? My wild summer love Where are you now? Have the years been kind? And do you think of me sometimes up on Kiteflyer's Hill? Oh, I pray you one day will We won't say a word We won't need them Sometimes silence is best We'll just stand in the still of the evening and whisper farewell to loneliness Where are you now? My wild summer love Where are you now? Do you think of me sometimes? And do you ever make that climb? Where are you now? My wild summer love Where are you now? Have the years been kind? And do you ever make that climb up on Kiteflyer's Hill? Kiteflyer's ... [French] Where are you? Where are you now? Where are you now? Kiteflyer's ... Gracias. Thank you very much.	你是否记得我们 一起攀登风筝山的时光 那些夏日夜晚，多么寂静 城市在我们脚下 生命在我们眼前 在残酷和愚蠢的话 残酷愚蠢地脱口而出之前 有些夜晚我会想起你 我会登上 风筝山之巅 在冬日寒风中拥裹着自己 在我脚下城市的某个角落 你正安睡 我不知道哪怕是短短的瞬间 我是否偶尔在你的梦中出现 此刻你在哪里？ 我疯狂的夏日之恋 此刻你在哪里？ 这些年都好吗？ 你是否也会想起我 站在风筝山之巅？ 噢，我祈祷会有那么一天 我们什么都不必说 我们不需要语言 有时沉默才是最好 我们只要矗立在深夜的寂静中 悄声告别孤独 此刻你在哪里？ 我疯狂的夏日之恋 此刻你在哪里？ 你偶尔会想起我吗 你是否登上过那座山 此刻你在哪里？ 我疯狂的夏日之恋 此刻你在哪里？ 这些年都好吗 你是否曾登上 风筝山之巅？ 风筝山 你在哪里？此刻你在哪里？ 此刻你在哪里？ 风筝山 （鼓掌） 谢谢。非常感谢。
I was asked by Wilsonart International, a plastic laminate company, which is the largest plastic laminate company in the world -- they asked me to design a trade show booth for exhibition at the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in New York, in 2000.	我曾被一个叫做Wilsonart International的 塑料样板房公司 一个全世界最大的塑料样板房公司， 他们找我去设计 贸易展览会的展台 来参展2000年在纽约举行的 2000年在纽约举行.
So looking at their three main markets for their product which were basically transportation design, interiors and furniture, we came up with the solution of taking an old Airstream trailer and gutting it, and trying to portray laminate, and a trailer, in kind of a fresh, new contemporary look.	看他们三大市场 他们的产品,基本上是 为交通设计 家具和内饰, 我们想出一个解决方案 一部老式蒸汽机房车然后改造它, 并试图描绘成样板房, 房车,是一个 新生的,当代的产物.
When this trailer showed up at my shop in Berkeley, I'd actually never stepped foot in an Airstream trailer, or any other trailer.	当房车在我店露面 在伯克利,事实上我从不愿停止设计 无论是蒸汽房车还是其他房车.
So I can be somebody that can look at this in a totally fresh perspective and see if I can optimize it in its most idealistic fashion.	从那时起我可以一个人 便更客观的审视这个新生产物 看看 是否可以完善它.
I decided I had to do some research and really figure out what had gone wrong somewhere along the history of Airstream.	于是，我决定去做一些研究 找出真正的问题在什么地方 探索着蒸汽房车的发展史.
What I discovered in these interiors is that there was a disconnect between the exterior shell and the interior architecture of the pieces.	在探索中发觉 与外界的实践有些脱节 然而室内实际的边角设计.
In that the shell was originally conceived as a lightweight, modern, futuristic, high-tech pod for hurtling down the freeway, and the interiors were completely out of sync with that.	外形是最初的构思 未来我们的理念将会是简约时尚, 高科技迅猛发展的时代. 这内外截然不同的设计风格.
In fact it appeared like they referenced a mountain cabin.	似乎是他们 借鉴了山中小茅屋.
That seemed really like a crisis to me, that they had never been able to develop a vocabulary about escape, and about travel, and modernity in this trailer that was consistent with the shell.	这看起来真像是在考验我. 然而他们却不能够 进一步描述 对于一些喜欢逃避现实 又喜欢旅游的人. 居住在房车里,再理想不过了.
We really needed to do some archeology in the trailer itself to figure out what's authentic in an Airstream trailer, and what feels like it has true purpose and utility.	我们真的需要去做一些研究 在房车里.去找出什么是你真正想要的 蒸汽式房车, 这才是我真正的目的和用途.
We stripped out all the vinyl and zolatone paint that was covering up this just fantastic aluminum shell.	我们除去了所有的乙烯. 使用zolatone油漆 这仅仅是幻想中的铝外壳.
We took off all the visible hardware and trim that was kind of doing the country cabin thing.	我们修剪了所有的金属边缘 这看起来像是一座郊区小茅屋.
I literally drew on the walls of the trailer, mocked it up in cardboard, we'd come in and cut, decide things were wrong, pull it out, put it back in.	我全心投入到房车墙面的手绘中, 像是在纸板上作画, 我们一直在商讨,哪些地方出了问题, 把它们纠正,改进.
The main goal was to smooth out the interior, and begin to speak about motion, and mobility, and independence.	其主要目的是:完成室内设计, 之后我们便征集议案, 可移动性和独立性.
The biggest difficulty on one of these trailers is that when you're designing there's actually no logical place to stop and start materials because of the continuous form of the trailer.	对这些房车来说这是最大的困难 问题是当你设计时 没有逻辑的地方停止使用材料, 由于房车的窗体整体性.
There's no such things as two walls and a ceiling coming together, where you can change materials and shapes.	还没有连接两个墙壁和天花板的东西 可以粘合在一起,可以改变材料和形状.
So that became a challenge.	因此,成为了一个挑战.
Compounding that, the material of choice, laminate, that I was trying to highlight, only bends in two dimensions.	粘合, 材料上我们选择薄板, 当时我试着突出这种材料 仅弯曲成两种规格.
It's a compound curve interior.	一个是复合的室内曲线设计.
What I had to devise was a way of fooling the eye into believing that all these panels are curved with the shell.	这就是我不得不制定 一种欺骗眼球的方法 来相信这些的面板有着 像贝壳一样的曲线.
What I came up with was a series of second skins that basically float over the aluminum shell.	这是提供来的 是一系列第二层外观, 外壳基本上是铝做的
And what I was trying to do there was direct your eye in the space, so that you would perceive the geometry in a different way, and that the casework wouldn't break up the space.	然后我试着去做的是 在空间里引导你的眼睛, 这样你会看到不同的几何图形. 并且不会打破空间的协调性.
They also gave us a way to run power and rewire the trailer without tearing out the skin, so they function as an electrical chase.	他们也了我们一个使用电力的方法 把电线埋在薄板里边. 他们对电的使用.
That's the trailer, pretty much finished.	这样我们就几乎完成了该房车.
That trailer led to another commission, to participate in whats called Tokyo Designers Block.	由于这房车让我们有幸参加另一个委员会, 一个叫做东京设计师的晚会.
Its a week of furniture design events in Tokyo, in October.	这个家具设计在东京的十月持续一周.
Teruo Kurosaki, who owns a furniture company called Idee, he asked me to ship him two trailers to Tokyo.	Teruo Kurosaki, 他拥有着一个叫做Idee的公司 他拜托我运送两辆房车到东京来.
He said one he would like to make a real trailer, functioning, and we would sell that one.	他说他想 制作一个真正的,使用性高的房车,并卖出去.
Trailer number two, you have a blank slate, you can to anything you want.	这两辆房车,就像你有一张白纸,你可以做任何你想做的.
We came up with a fantasy scenario of a DJ traveling around the States, that would collect records and go on tours.	我们提出一个DJ环游美国的 充满幻想的方案. 这将边收集记录,边旅行.
This trailer housed two turntables, mixer, wet bar, fridge, integrated sound system.	房车里将内置两台唱盘机, 混音器、酒吧、冰箱、综合音响系统.
It's got a huge couch, fits quite a few people, and basically we'd had a great time with this.	它还有个巨大的沙发，可以坐下几个人. 我们度过了一段非常美好的时光.
And so in this trailer I took it upon myself to think about travel, and escape, in an idiosyncratic sense.	当我看到这房车,连我也想有去旅行,去逃离的冲动. 这是种别具一格的感觉.
A lot of these ideas migrated into the production trailers for Airstream.	将很多的想法移植到 蒸汽房车的生产中.
This brings us up to the time that I started consulting to Airstream.	这段时间我开始请教气流。
They came to me and said, "Well, what can we do to freshen this thing up?	他们对我说： "好，我们能做些什么把它变的更有新鲜感？"
And do you think kids, you know, skateboarders, surfers, rock climbers, would use these things?"	你认为孩子们，他们知道滑板，冲浪者， 攀岩登山者，会使用这些东西"？
And I said, "Well, not in that interior."	我说："嗯，这些运动并不在室内."
Anyway, I went out to Airstream about six times during the process of building this prototype, and it's called the Bambi prototype.	无论如何.我处理这个 模型时我们修改过6次. 它被叫做小鹿斑比原型.
I thought, "Finally, oh yeah great, big company, I'm gonna work with somebody with money for tooling and molding."	我想, 最终完成了, 在这个伟大公司里,我会跟重要人物一起工作 致力于工具和模具.
And I walked in their prototype facility, and it's exactly like my shop, only bigger -- same tools, same things.	然而我参观他们的模型设施, 这太像我的店铺了,只是更大一些, 一样的工具, 一样的东西.
So the problem became -- and they set this dilemma to me -- that you have to design the interior using only our existing technology, and there's no money for tooling or molding.	事实上.他们让我走入了困境, 使用我们现有的技术进行内部设计, 而且没有免费的工具和模型.
The trailers themselves are actually hand-built.	房车实际上是我们自己动手打造.
All the casework is hand-scribed in, uniquely, so you can't just cut 100 parts for 100 trailers, you have to cut them big, and every single one is hand-fit.	所有的部分是独创.独特的, 所以你不能复制出100件一样的房车, 你要为他们量身定做.
They didn't want to go to a componentized system.	他们不是千篇一律.
And there it is, that's the Bambi 16.	然而,这就是小鹿斑比16号.
I'm a pediatrician and an anesthesiologist, so I put children to sleep for a living.	我是一名儿科医生和麻醉师， 我以帮孩子们入睡为生。
And I'm an academic, so I put audiences to sleep for free.	我也是一名大学教师，所以我免费让听我讲课的人打瞌睡。
But what I actually mostly do is I manage the pain management service at the Packard Children's Hospital up at Stanford in Palo Alto.	但我主要从事的 还是提供管理疼痛的服务 在帕罗奥多市 斯坦福大学的 帕卡德儿童医院。
And it's from the experience from about 20 or 25 years of doing that that I want to bring to you the message this morning, that pain is a disease.	从经验上来讲， 根据我20或25年的执业经验 今早，我想告诉你的是， 疼痛是一种病。
Now most of the time, you think of pain as a symptom of a disease, and that's true most of the time.	大多数时候， 你会认为疼痛是一种症状。 大多数情况下，这种想法是正确的。
It's the symptom of a tumor or an infection or an inflammation or an operation.	它的确是肿瘤和感染的症状 或者是发炎、手术中的症状。
But about 10 percent of the time, after the patient has recovered from one of those events, pain persists.	但有约10％的情况下， 病人虽然已经从上述情况下康复， 但疼痛依然继续。
It persists for months and oftentimes for years, and when that happens, it is its own disease.	有时候持续几个月 甚至持续几年。 当这种情况发生时， 疼痛本身就是一种疾病。
And before I tell you about how it is that we think that happens and what we can do about it, I want to show you how it feels for my patients.	在我向你讲解它是如何发生 我们可以采取何种措施之前， 我想向你展示一下，病人对此的感受。
So imagine, if you will, that I'm stroking your arm with this feather, as I'm stroking my arm right now.	如果可以，请你想象一下， 我用这根羽毛挠你， 就像现在我挠自己的手臂一样。
Now, I want you to imagine that I'm stroking it with this.	现在，我要你想象 如果我是用这个"挠"你呢？
Please keep your seat.	请大家只管坐好！
A very different feeling.	非常迥异的感觉。
Now what does it have to do with chronic pain?	这跟慢性疼痛有什么关联呢？
Imagine, if you will, these two ideas together.	如果这两个感觉被混淆了
Imagine what your life would be like if I were to stroke it with this feather, but your brain was telling you that this is what you are feeling -- and that is the experience of my patients with chronic pain.	想象一下你的生活将会怎样 如果我是用这根羽毛去挠你， 结果你的大脑却告诉你 你现在的感觉是灼伤-- 这就是我的患者对慢性疼痛的感受。
In fact, imagine something even worse.	事实上，想象下更糟糕的情况。
Imagine I were to stroke your child's arm with this feather, and their brain [was] telling them that they were feeling this hot torch.	想象下我用这根羽毛去挠你孩子的胳膊， 结果他们的大脑却告诉他们 他们感受到的是这个灼热的喷火枪。
That was the experience of my patient, Chandler, whom you see in the photograph.	这就是我的患者，钱德勒的遭遇， 就是照片中的女孩。
As you can see, she's a beautiful, young woman.	正如你看到的，她是个漂亮的年轻姑娘。
She was 16 years old last year when I met her, and she aspired to be a professional dancer.	去年当我遇到她时，她16岁， 她渴望成为一名专业的舞者。
And during the course of one of her dance rehearsals, she fell on her outstretched arm and sprained her wrist.	在她的一次舞蹈排练中， 她摔倒压在了自己向外伸展的手臂上，并且扭伤了手腕。
Now you would probably imagine, as she did, that a wrist sprain is a trivial event in a person's life.	就像当时钱德勒的想法， 你可能也认为这就是人生当中 一次普通的受伤。
Wrap it in an ACE bandage, take some ibuprofen for a week or two, and that's the end of the story.	用绷带缠起来 吃点布洛芬，一周或两周 事情就会结束。
But in Chandler's case, that was the beginning of the story.	但是在钱德勒这次的遭遇中，这只是故事的开始。
This is what her arm looked like when she came to my clinic about three months after her sprain.	图中是当时她手臂的情况 当她来到我的诊所时，已经是扭伤发生约三个月后
You can see that the arm is discolored, purplish in color.	你可以看到手臂已经变色 有点青紫
It was cadaverically cold to the touch.	摸上去像尸体一样冷
The muscles were frozen, paralyzed -- dystonic is how we refer to that.	肌肉僵硬-- 我们通常所说的瘫痪性肌张力异常。
The pain had spread from her wrist to her hands, to her fingertips, from her wrist up to her elbow, almost all the way to her shoulder.	疼痛从她的手腕蔓延到手掌， 到手指，又从手腕蔓延到手肘， 一直到她的肩膀。
But the worst part was, not the spontaneous pain that was there 24 hours a day.	但最糟糕的 不是每天24小时的自发性疼痛。
The worst part was that she had allodynia, the medical term for the phenomenon that I just illustrated with the feather and with the torch.	最糟糕的是她患上痛觉超敏症 这是一个医学术语 说的就是我刚才用羽毛和喷火枪所演示的那种情况
The lightest touch of her arm -- the touch of a hand, the touch even of a sleeve, of a garment, as she put it on -- caused excruciating, burning pain.	轻微的触碰她的手臂 触碰手掌， 即使是她自己穿衣服时触碰到手袖、衣物 也会造成难以忍受的烧灼痛
How can the nervous system get this so wrong?	神经系统怎么会犯这样的错呢？
How can the nervous system misinterpret an innocent sensation like the touch of a hand and turn it into the malevolent sensation of the touch of the flame?	神经系统 怎么会误解一个本来无害的触觉呢？ 就像是把手的触摸 误解成 触摸火焰的恶意感觉。
Well you probably imagine that the nervous system in the body is hardwired like your house.	把身体里的神经系统 想象成你家里的电线电路。
In your house, wires run in the wall, from the light switch to a junction box in the ceiling and from the junction box to the light bulb.	在你家里，电线布满在墙壁里， 从灯的开关到天花板上的接线盒 从接线盒又到灯泡。
And when you turn the switch on, the light goes on.	当你打开开关的时候，灯泡亮了
And when you turn the switch off, the light goes off.	等你关闭开关的时候，灯泡熄灭。
So people imagine the nervous system is just like that.	假设神经系统就是这样。
If you hit your thumb with a hammer, these wires in your arm -- that, of course, we call nerves -- transmit the information into the junction box in the spinal cord where new wires, new nerves, take the information up to the brain where you become consciously aware that your thumb is now hurt.	如果你用锤子敲大拇指， 你手臂里的电线——当然，我们称为神经—— 在脊髓里传递信息到接线盒 新电线，新的神经 把信息运送到大脑 因此你能自觉意识到你的大拇指受伤了。
But the situation, of course, in the human body is far more complicated than that.	这个情况，当然，是发生在身体里的 实际上更复杂一些。
Instead of it being the case that that junction box in the spinal cord is just simple where one nerve connects with the next nerve by releasing these little brown packets of chemical information called neurotransmitters in a linear one-on-one fashion, in fact, what happens is the neurotransmitters spill out in three dimensions -- laterally, vertically, up and down in the spinal cord -- and they start interacting with other adjacent cells.	相反 脊髓里的接线盒 仅仅是一段神经联系另一段神经的地方 通过释放这些小棕色块 也就是被称为神经递质的化学信息 以一对一的线性方式 事实上 是神经递质发散出三维空间-- 在脊髓里横向、纵向、以及上下地-- 它们和其他邻近的细胞之间 开始发生反应。
These cells, called glial cells, were once thought to be unimportant structural elements of the spinal cord that did nothing more than hold all the important things together, like the nerves.	这些细胞，称为神经胶质细胞， 它们曾经被认为 是脊髓里不重要的结构构件 仅仅是把其他重要的东西连接在一起， 比如说神经。
But it turns out the glial cells have a vital role in the modulation, amplification and, in the case of pain, the distortion of sensory experiences.	结果却发现 在疼痛的案例中，神经胶质细胞 在调节，扩大 和歪曲 感觉体验的作用中起着非常重要的作用。
These glial cells become activated.	这些胶质细胞活跃起来。
Their DNA starts to synthesize new proteins, which spill out and interact with adjacent nerves, and they start releasing their neurotransmitters, and those neurotransmitters spill out and activate adjacent glial cells, and so on and so forth, until what we have is a positive feedback loop.	它们的脱氧核糖核酸开始合成新的蛋白质 同时发散出来 与邻近的神经发生反应。 释放出神经递质。 神经递质又被发散出来 激活了邻近的胶质细胞，然后如此循环往复， 直到 神经反射。
It's almost as if somebody came into your home and rewired your walls so that the next time you turned on the light switch, the toilet flushed three doors down, or your dishwasher went on, or your computer monitor turned off.	几乎就像是有人到你家 重新在你墙壁里布线， 结果你下次打开灯的开关， 却意外的冲了三次马桶， 或者是启动了洗碗机， 或者是电脑显示器被关闭。
That's crazy, but that's, in fact, what happens with chronic pain.	乱套了！ 但事实上， 这就是患上慢性疼痛后，会发生的事情。
And that's why pain becomes its own disease.	也是为什么疼痛本身会变成一种疾病。
The nervous system has plasticity.	神经系统有可塑性。
It changes, and it morphs in response to stimuli.	对刺激做出反应 它会改变，也会变异。
Well, what do we do about that?	那我们该怎么办呢？
What can we do in a case like Chandler's?	针对钱德勒这样的情况我们该怎么做呢？
We treat these patients in a rather crude fashion at this point in time.	我们用相对粗糙的一种方式来治疗这些患者 目前是这样的。
We treat them with symptom-modifying drugs -- painkillers -- which are, frankly, not very effective for this kind of pain.	我们用控制症状的药物来治疗 也就是止疼药 坦白说，对于这种病 不是很有效。
We take nerves that are noisy and active that should be quiet, and we put them to sleep with local anesthetics.	我们只是让那些吵闹的神经 消停下来， 用局部麻醉来使它们进入睡眠。
And most importantly, what we do is we use a rigorous, and often uncomfortable, process of physical therapy and occupational therapy to retrain the nerves in the nervous system to respond normally to the activities and sensory experiences that are part of everyday life.	最重要的是，我们所做的 只是用枯燥且常不舒服的 物理治疗和职业治疗法 来在神经系统里维持神经 使它们在日常生活的 感官活动中 做出正常的反应。
And we support all of that with an intensive psychotherapy program to address the despondency, despair and depression that always accompanies severe, chronic pain.	对此，我们用密集的心理治疗方案 进行全力的配合 解决那些 伴随严重慢性疼痛而来的 沮丧、绝望和抑郁。
It's successful, as you can see from this video of Chandler, who, two months after we first met her, is now doings a back flip.	我们很成功！ 正如你从这个视频短片中看到的钱德勒， 在我们遇见她两个月之后， 她正做着后空翻。
And I had lunch with her yesterday because she's a college student studying dance at Long Beach here, and she's doing absolutely fantastic.	昨天我刚和她一起吃了午饭， 因为现在，她是在长滩学习舞蹈的一名大学生。 她现在简直是棒极了！
But the future is actually even brighter.	未来更加美好！
The future holds the promise that new drugs will be developed that are not symptom-modifying drugs that simply mask the problem, as we have now, but that will be disease-modifying drugs that will actually go right to the root of the problem and attack those glial cells, or those pernicious proteins that the glial cells elaborate, that spill over and cause this central nervous system wind-up, or plasticity, that so is capable of distorting and amplifying the sensory experience that we call pain.	未来有希望 开发新的药物 不是那些只会控制症状的药物 它们仅仅是粉饰问题。 而是，正如我们现在看到的， 去开发那种治病的药物 能真正从根本上解决问题 对付神经胶质细胞 或对付那些由神经胶质细胞产生的 有害的蛋白质 它们溢出后使中枢神经系统产生发条拧紧现象， 产生神经的可塑性， 因此就有可能 歪曲和扩大了 我们称为疼痛的感觉体验。
So I have hope that in the future, the prophetic words of George Carlin will be realized, who said, "My philosophy: No pain, no pain."	所以，我有一个愿望 在将来 乔治·卡林的预言会实现， 他说，"我的哲学是： 没痛就不痛。"
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
	（鼓掌声）
Today I'm going to take you on a voyage to some place so deep, so dark, so unexplored that we know less about it than we know about the dark side of the moon.	今天，我将带你们启程前往 一个很深、 很黑暗、未被探索过的地方， 我们对它的了解比我们对月球背面的了解还要少。
It's a place of myth and legend.	这是一个充满神秘与传奇之地。
It's a place marked on ancient maps as "here be monsters."	在古代地图上，它被标识为 "怪物出没"的地方。
It is a place where each new voyage of exploration brings back new discoveries of creatures so wondrous and strange that our forefathers would have considered them monstrous indeed.	这个地方，每个新的探索之旅 都带回了有关惊人的神奇生物的新发现， 我们的祖先认为这些生物是怪物。
Instead, they just make me green with envy that my colleague from IUCN was able to go on this journey to the south of Madagascar seamounts to actually take photographs and to see these wondrous creatures of the deep.	实际上，我十分羡慕 我世界自然保护联盟的同事们 能够去马达加斯加海岭的南部继续此次旅程， 去拍摄真实的图片， 去观察这些海洋深处的神奇生物。
We are talking about the high seas.	我们谈论的是公海。
The "high seas" is a legal term, but in fact, it covers 50 percent of the planet.	公海是一个法律概念。 但实际上，它覆盖了地球的50%。
With an average depth of the oceans of 4,000 meters, in fact, the high seas covers and provides nearly 90 percent of the habitat for life on this Earth.	海洋的平均深度 是4000米。 实际上，公海为地球上的生命 提供了近90%的 栖息地。
It is, in theory, the global commons, belonging to us all.	理论上，它是全球共有的， 属于我们大家。
But in reality, it is managed by and for those who have the resources to go out and exploit it.	但是，事实上 它被某些 有资源走入并勘探深海的人 管理和利用着。
So today I'm going to take you on a voyage to cast light on some of the outdated myths and legends and assumptions that have kept us as the true stakeholders in the high seas in the dark.	因而，今天我要带你们展开旅程， 破除一些过时的 阻止我们成为 在黑暗的公海的真正的利益相关者的 神话、传奇与猜想。
We're going to voyage to some of these special places that we've been discovering in the past few years to show why we really need to care.	我们将航向一些特定的地点， 在过去数年我们在这些地方有所发现， 这些发现表明为何我们确实需要关注公海。
And then finally, we're going to try to develop and pioneer a new perspective on high seas governance that's rooted in ocean-basin-wide conservation, but framed in an arena of global norms of precaution and respect.	最后，我们将试着 发展和提出一个新的 有关公海治理的观点。 这一观点植根于整个海洋的保护， 在国际准则框架内 进行预警和关注。
So here is a picture of the high seas as seen from above -- that area in the darker blue.	好，这是一幅公海图片， 正如之前所看到的 -- 是用深蓝色表示的区域。
To me, as an international lawyer, this scared me far more than any of the creatures or the monsters we may have seen, for it belies the notion that you can actually protect the ocean, the global ocean, that provides us all with carbon storage, with heat storage, with oxygen, if you can only protect 36 percent.	对于我，一名国际律师， 这更加让我害怕， 比起任何我们可能见过的生物或怪物更令人害怕， 因为它说明我们能切实保护海洋， 全球海洋 提供给我们所有人需要的 碳、热量、氧气， 如果你仅能保护其中的36%的话。
This is indeed the true heart of the planet.	这是真正的地球之心。
Some of the problems that we have to confront are that the current international laws -- for example, shipping -- provide more protection to the areas closest to shore.	我们不得不面对的一些问题 是现有的国际法—— 例如，航海方面—— 提供了更多保护 给那些近岸区域。
For example, garbage discharge, something you would think just simply goes away, but the laws regulating ship discharge of garbage actually get weaker the further you are from shore.	例如，垃圾排放， 你可能认为仅仅是简单地排放掉， 但是法律关于 船舶垃圾排放的规定 实际上离岸上越远就越软弱。
As a result, we have garbage patches the size of twice-Texas.	因此，我们垃圾排放场所的 面积相当于德克萨斯的两倍。
It's unbelievable.	这令人难以置信。
We used to think the solution to pollution was dilution, but that has proved to be no longer the case.	我们过去认为解决污染的办法 是进行稀释， 但是这已被证明不再适用。
So what we have learned from social scientists and economists like Elinor Ostrom, who are studying the phenomenon of management of the commons on a local scale, is that there are certain prerequisites that you can put into place that enable you to manage and access open space for the good of one and all.	因此，我们从社会学家 和经济学家，如埃莉诺.奥斯特洛姆那里学到的是， 他们正在研究 局部地区对共有物的管理现象， 那里有某种先决条件， 你能满足先决条件， 就能为了个人或社会的利益 管理和进入 公共领域。
And these include a sense of shared responsibility, common norms that bind people together as a community.	这些包括一种共同的责任感， 共同的理念将人们团结在一起。
Conditional access: You can invite people in, but they have to be able to play by the rules.	有条件准入：你可以邀请人们加入， 但他们必须按规则行事。
And of course, if you want people to play by the rules, you still need an effective system of monitoring and enforcement, for as we've discovered, you can trust, but you also need to verify.	当然，如果你想让人们按规则行事， 仍需要一个有效的系统 来监督和实施， 正如我们所发现的， 你可信任他们，但是也须证明他们可信。
What I'd also like to convey is that it is not all doom and gloom that we are seeing in the high seas.	我还想传达的是， 厄运和黑暗 并非我们在公海上所见到的全部。
For a group of very dedicated individuals -- scientists, conservationists, photographers and states -- were able to actually change a tragic trajectory that was destroying fragile seascapes such as this coral garden that you see in front of you.	对于一群非常乐于奉献的个人—— 科学家、环境保护主义者、 摄影家和国家—— 能够实实在在地改变悲剧轨迹， 这些悲剧轨迹破坏了脆弱的海洋风光。 例如这个珊瑚花园， 你面前所看到的这张，
That is, we're able to save it from a fate of deep-sea bottom trawling.	我们能够 从深海底部的拖网捕捞中挽救其命运。
And how did we do that?	我们怎么做的呢？
Well, as I said, we had a group of photographers that went out on board ships and actually photographed the activities in process.	如我之前所说，我们有一群摄影家登船出海， 他们拍摄了拖网捕捞活动过程。
But we also spent many hours in the basements of the United Nations, trying to work with governments to make them understand what was going on so far away from land that few of us had ever even imagined that these creatures existed.	但是，我们也在在联合国的机构 内花了一些时间， 尝试与政府合作，让他们明白 远离陆地的地方发生了什么 我们过去几乎没有人能想象到的事， 这些生物存在。
So within three years, from 2003 to 2006, we were able to get norm in place that actually changed the paradigm of how fishers went about deep-sea bottom trawling.	故在3年内， 从2003到2006年， 我们能够建立一些规范。 这些规范确实改变了过去的模式， 有关渔民从事 深海拖网捕捞的模式，
Instead of "go anywhere, do anything you want," we actually created a regime that required prior assessment of where you're going and a duty to prevent significant harm.	你不再能想去哪就去哪，想干啥就干啥。 我们确实创设了一种制度， 你想到哪里去需要预先评估， 并有责任避免重大损害。
In 2009, when the U.N. reviewed progress, they discovered that almost 100 million square-kilometers of seabed had been protected.	2009年，当联合国检查我们的进度时， 他们发现， 几乎1亿平方公里的海床 受到了保护。
This does not mean that it's the final solution, or that this even provides permanent protection.	这并非意味着问题得到了彻底解决 或者已经提供了永久性保护。
But what it does mean is that a group of individuals can form a community to actually shape the way high seas are governed, to create a new regime.	但是它确实意味着， 一群个人可以形成一个团体， 来切实塑造 公海时代的治理方式， 创造一种新的制度。
So I'm looking optimistically at our opportunities for creating a true, blue perspective for this beautiful planet.	故我乐观地看待我们的机遇， 来创造一个真正蔚蓝的前景， 为这美丽的星球。
Sylvia's wish provides us with that leverage, that access to the heart of human beings, you might say, who have rarely seen places beyond their own toes, but are now hopefully going to become interested in the full life-cycle of creatures like these sea turtles, who indeed spend most of their time in the high seas.	"西尔维娅的愿望" 向我们提供了 通往人类心灵的途径。 你可能会说， 这些几乎鼠目寸光的人 现在却越来越有兴趣 关注海龟这样的生物的整个生命周期。 他们真的将大部分时间花在了公海上。
Today, we're just going to voyage to a small sampling of some of these special areas, just to give you an idea of the flavor of the riches and wonders they do contain.	今天我们只打算航行到 这些特殊地区中的很小一部分， 仅仅是给你一点 有关它们所蕴含的富饶与神奇风情的概念。
The Sargasso Sea, for example, is not a sea bounded by coastlines, but it is bounded by oceanic currents that contain and envelope this wealth of sargassum that grows and aggregates there.	例如马尾藻海， 它不是一个被海岸包围的海洋， 它被洋流环绕， 洋流包裹和环绕着 马尾藻的养分。 马尾藻生长、聚集于此。
It's also known as the spawning ground for eels from Northern European and Northern American rivers that are now so dwindling in numbers that they've actually stopped showing up in Stockholm, and five showed up in the U.K. just recently.	它也被认为是鳗鱼产卵之地。 这些鳗鱼来自北欧 和北美的河流。 这些鱼的数量正在减少。 在斯德哥尔摩，它们已经消失了。 最近在英国发现了5条。
But the Sargasso Sea, the same way it aggregates sargassum weed, actually is pulling in the plastic from throughout the region.	但是在马尾藻海 以聚集马尾藻的同样方式 聚集了 充满整个区域的塑料。
This picture doesn't exactly show the plastics that I would like it to show, because I haven't been out there myself.	这个图片并未确切显示 我所想展示的这些塑料垃圾，因为我自己从未到过那里。
But there has just been a study that was released in February that showed there are 200,000 pieces of plastic per square-kilometer now floating in the surface of the Sargasso Sea, and that is affecting the habitat for the many species in their juvenile stages who come to the Sargasso Sea for its protection and its food.	但是这有一项研究 已于2月开始进行 表明那里每平方公里有 20万片塑料垃圾 正漂浮在马尾藻海的海面。 而且影响了很多 处于成长阶段的物种的栖息地。 它们来到马尾藻海 为了获得保护及食物。
The Sargasso Sea is also a wondrous place for the aggregation of these unique species that have developed to mimic the sargassum habitat.	马尾藻海仍是个神奇之地， 由于这些独特物种的聚集。 它们已适应马尾藻的栖息地。
It also provides a special habitat for these flying fish to lay their eggs.	它也确实提供了一个特殊的栖息场所， 让这些飞鱼产卵。
But what I'd like to get from this picture is that we truly do have an opportunity to launch a global initiative for protection.	但是，我从这幅图片想到的是， 我们确实有机会 开展全球化的保护倡议
Thus, the government of Bermuda has recognized the need and its responsibility as having some of the Sargasso Sea within its national jurisdiction -- but the vast majority is beyond -- to help spearhead a movement to achieve protection for this vital area.	因此，百慕大政府已经认识到 必要性和责任感。 有部分马尾藻海 在其国内管辖权的范围之内—— 但是，马尾藻海庞大的主体部分超出了其管辖范围—— 百慕大政府正作为一项运动的先锋 来保护这个极重要的地区。
Spinning down to someplace a little bit cooler than here right now: the Ross Sea in the Southern Ocean.	现在我们转向一个比马尾藻海更冷一点的地方， 南太平洋的罗斯海。
It's actually a bay.	它实际是个海湾。
It's considered high seas, because the continent has been put off limits to territorial claims.	它被认为是公海，因为该大陆 已经超出 任何国家宣示领土的限度。
So anything in the water is treated as if it's the high seas.	因此，该水域中的一切都被当做公海一样对待。
But what makes the Ross Sea important is the vast sea of pack ice that in the spring and summer provides a wealth of phytoplankton and krill that supports what, till recently, has been a virtually intact near-shore ecosystem.	但是罗斯海如此重要 是因为广袤海域由浮冰构成。 浮冰在春季和夏季 提供养分给浮游生物和磷虾。 直到近年它们仍支持着 一个完整的 近海生态系统。
But unfortunately, CCAMLR, the regional commission in charge of conserving and managing fish stocks and other living marine resources, is unfortunately starting to give in to fishing interests and has authorized the expansion of toothfish fisheries in the region.	但是不幸的是，CAMLAR—— 一个地区的委员会， 它负责保护和管理渔业资源 和其他海洋生物资源， 不幸地开始向捕鱼利益让步 并授权在本地区 扩大对牙鱼的捕捞。
The captain of a New Zealand vessel who was just down there is reporting a significant decline in the number of the Ross Sea killer whales, who are directly dependent on the Antarctic toothfish as their main source of food.	一艘新西兰船舶的船长 刚到过那里。 他报告称， 罗斯海虎鲸数量急剧减少。 虎鲸直接依赖南极牙鱼 作为主要食物来源。
So what we need to do is to stand up boldly, singly and together, to push governments, to push regional fisheries management organizations, to declare our right to declare certain areas off-limits to high seas fishing, so that the freedom to fish no longer means the freedom to fish anywhere and anytime.	因此，我们需要做的是大胆站起来， 分别和共同 向政府施压， 向地区渔业管理组织施压， 宣示我们的权利， 声明公海某些地区捕鱼量的上限。 以此说明捕鱼自由不在意味着 在任何地方、任何时间捕鱼的自由。
Coming closer to here, the Costa Rica Dome is a recently discovered area -- potentially year-round habitat for blue whales.	换一个更接近这里的地方，哥斯达黎加圆突区 是近年才开发的地区—— 是潜在的蓝鲸的常年栖息地。
There's enough food there to last them the summer and the winter long.	这里有足够的食物 让他们度过四季。
But what's unusual about the Costa Rica Dome is, in fact, it's not a permanent place.	但是，哥斯达黎加圆突区的不平凡之处 在于它实际不是一个永久性区域。
It's an oceanographic phenomenon that shifts in time and space on a seasonal basis.	这是一个海洋学的现象， 它随时间及季节变动。
So, in fact, it's not permanently in the high seas.	实际上，它并非永久处于公海上，
It's not permanently in the exclusive economic zones of these five Central American countries, but it moves with the season.	它也并非永久处于 中美洲五国的专属经济区。 它随季节移动。
As such, it does create a challenge to protect, but we also have a challenge protecting the species that move along with it.	正因为如此，对它进行保护是项挑战。 但是我们也面临着保护随着它而移动的物种的挑战。
We can use the same technologies that fishers use to identify where the species are, in order to close the area when it's most vulnerable, which may, in some cases, be year-round.	我们能够使用同样的技术， 即渔民识别鱼群所在地的技术， 来接近这一地区。 当它极其脆弱的时候 ——在很多情况下，这可能是常年的。
Getting closer to shore, where we are, this was in fact taken in the Galapagos.	我们靠近海岸一点， 就会发现这是在加拉帕格斯群岛发生的情况。
Many species are headed through this region, which is why there's been so much attention put into conservation of the Eastern Tropical Pacific Seascape.	很多物种经过这一地区， 因而这里获得很多 有关保护 太平洋东部热带海洋的关注。
This is the initiative that's been coordinated by Conservation International with a variety of partners and governments to actually try to bring integrated management regime throughout the area.	此倡议是得到 国际保护组织 和各方面以及一些政府的配合， 力图建立一体化的管理制度， 在这一区域。
That is, it provides a wonderful example of where you can go with a real regional initiative.	它提供了一个"你能去哪里"的极好范例， 用一个真实的地区性倡议的方式。
It's protecting five World Heritage sites.	它保护着五处世界遗产。
Unfortunately, the World Heritage Convention does not recognize the need to protect areas beyond national jurisdiction, at present.	不幸的是，世界人类遗产公约 没有意识到需要保护的区域 目前超出了国家管辖的范围。
So a place like the Costa Rica Dome could not technically qualify the time it's in the high seas.	因此，一个像哥斯达黎加圆突区的地方， 严格来说无法证明 它在公海内的时间。
So what we've been suggesting is that we either need to amend the World Heritage Convention, so that it can adopt and urge universal protection of these World Heritage sites, or we need to change the name and call it Half-the-World Heritage Convention.	因此我们建议： 要么我们需要修订世界人类遗产公约， 让它能适应 和推动对这些世界遗产的普遍性保护。 要么我们改变该公约的名称， 称之为"半世界人类遗产公约"。
But what we also know is that species like these sea turtles do not stay put in the Eastern Tropical Pacific Seascape.	但是，我们也知道像这些海龟这样的物种 不会一直处于太平洋东部热带海洋。
These happen to go down to a vast South Pacific Gyre, where they spend most of their time and often end up getting hooked like this, or as bycatch.	它们有时会进入广阔的南太平洋的涡流中， 在此度过它们的大半生。 并且它们经常最后被这样钩住， 或者被误捕。
So what I'd really like to suggest is that we need to scale-up.	因此，我确实要建议我们需要拓展。
We need to work locally, but we also need to work ocean-basin-wide.	我们需要局部性工作， 但是我们也需要进行海洋全流域的工作。
We have the tools and technologies now to enable us to take a broader ocean-basin-wide initiative.	我们现在有一些工具和技术 使我们能提出一个更广泛的 海洋全流域的倡议。
We've heard about the Tagging of Pacific Predators project, one of the 17 Census of Marine Life projects.	我们听说过"标记太平洋捕食动物"工程， 这是17个"海洋生命普查"工程之一。
It's provided us data like this, of tiny, little sooty shearwaters that make the entire ocean basin their home.	它为我们提供了这样的数据， 小小的灰鹱 以整个海盆为家。
They fly 65,000 kilometers in less than a year.	在不到一年的时间内， 它们飞行65000公里。
So we have the tools and treasures coming from the Census of Marine Life.	因此我们有来自"海洋生命普查"工程的工具和数据。
And its culminating year that's going to be launched in October.	它的最后一年 将于10月开始。
So stay tuned for further information.	故要继续等待进一步信息。
What I find so exciting is that the Census of Marine Life has looked at more than the tagging of pacific predators; it's also looked in the really unexplored mid-water column, where creatures like this flying sea cucumber have been found.	振奋人心的发现是 "海洋生命普查" 不只着眼于标记太平洋的捕食动物， 它同样注意未被探索过的中水层生物， 在这里像这样游动的海参一类的生物 已被发现。
And fortunately, we've been able, as IUCN, to team up with the Census of Marine Life and many of the scientists working there to actually try to translate much of this information to policymakers.	幸运的是，像国际自然和自然资源保护联合会一样，我们能够 与"海洋生命普查"工作合作， 而且有很多科学家为之工作， 力图传递 很多这种信息给政策制定者们。
We have the support of governments now behind us.	现在我们有了政府的支持。
We've been revealing this information through technical workshops.	我们通过技术工作室发布这种信息。
And the exciting thing is that we do have sufficient information to move ahead to protect some of these significant hope spots, hotspots.	令人兴奋地是我们有足够的信息 去进一步保护一些 明显有希望的地区和热点地区。
At the same time we're saying, "Yes, we need more. We need to move forward."	同时，我们号召 "是的，我们需要更多，我们需要前进"。
But many of you have said, if you get these marine protected areas, or a reasonable regime for high seas fisheries management in place, how are you going to enforce it?	但是你们中的很多人说过， 如果这些海域能得到保护， 或是一项合理的公海渔业管理制度能够到位。 你将如何去执行它？
Which leads me to my second passion besides ocean science, which is outer space technology.	这将我引向除了海洋科学以外，我第二感兴趣的方面， 就是外层空间技术。
I wanted to be an astronaut, so I've constantly followed what are the tools available to monitor Earth from outer space -- and that we have incredible tools like we've been learning about, in terms of being able to follow tagged species throughout their life-cycles in the open ocean.	我曾想成为一名宇航员， 故我一直关注 可从外层空间， 监测地球的技术—— 如我们所知，我们拥有惊人的技术， 跟踪被标记了的物种的科技， 在它们的整个生命周期中， 在海洋里。
We can also tag and track fishing vessels.	我们也能标记和追踪渔船。
Many already have transponders on board that allow us to find out where they are and even what they're doing.	很多船上已经装了异频雷达收发机， 使我们能发现它们在哪里以及在做什么。
But not all the vessels have those to date.	但是迄今为止并非所有船舶都安装上了。
It does not take too much rocket science to actually try to create new laws to mandate, if you're going to have the privilege of accessing our high seas resources, we need to know -- someone needs to know -- where you are and what you're doing.	这并不需要多少高科技 来创造新的法律。 如果你想拥有特权 获得我们的公海资源， 我们需要知道——有人需要知道—— 你在哪里以及在做什么。
So it brings me to my main take-home message, which is we can avert a tragedy of the commons.	因此，它将我带回主题 这就是我们能够避免共同的悲剧。
We can stop the collision course of 50 percent of the planet with the high seas.	我们能阻止这些冲突， 这些冲突发生在占地球50% 的公海上。
But we need to think broad-scale. We need to think globally.	但是我们需要广泛思考，我们需要全球性的思考，
We need to change how we actually go about managing these resources.	我们需要改变我们正用于 管理这些资源的方式。
We need to get the new paradigm of precaution and respect.	我们需要获得新的 关于预防和重视的模式。
At the same time, we need to think locally, which is the joy and marvel of Sylvia's hope spot wish, is that we can shine a spotlight on many of these previously unknown areas, and to bring people to the table, if you will, to actually make them feel part of this community that truly has a stake in their future management.	同时，我们需要局部性思考。 "西尔维娅的愿望"能够获得成功的原因 是我们能够聚焦于一个亮点， 在这些此前未知的地区。 然后把问题带给人们——如果你愿意—— 使他们感到自己是这个团体的一部分 这个团体确实具有利害关系 在他们未来的管理中。
And third is that we need to look at ocean-basin-wide management.	第三，我们需要关注海洋全流域的管理
Our species are ocean-basin-wide.	各物种都是海底全流域活动的
Many of the deep-sea communities have genetic distribution that goes ocean-basin-wide.	很多深海群落 有着遗传学分布， 遍及海洋全流域。
We need to better understand, but we also need to start to manage and protect.	我们需要理解， 但是我们也需要开始管理和保护。
And in order to do that, you also need ocean-basin management regimes.	为了做到这些， 你也需要海盆管理制度。
That is, we have regional management regimes within the exclusive economic zone, but we need to scale these up, we need to build their capacity, so they're like the Southern Ocean, where they do have the two-pronged fisheries and conservation organization.	我们有地区性管理制度， 在专属经济区。 但是我们需要整合它们，我们需要设立权限， 像在南太平洋那样。 在那里，它们有双管齐下的渔业 和保护组织。
So with that, I would just like to sincerely thank and honor Sylvia Earle for her wish, for it is helping us to put a face on the high seas and the deep seas beyond national jurisdiction.	所以在这一点上，我愿意真诚感谢和赞扬 "西尔维娅.厄尔的愿望"， 它帮助我们面向公海 和超出国家管辖权的深海。
It's helping to bring an incredible group of talented people together to really try to solve and penetrate these problems that have created our obstacles to management and rational use of this area that was once so far away and remote.	这有助于我们组建一个令人惊叹的团体。 它由极具天赋的人们共同组成， 力图解决和洞察 这些给我们制造障碍的问题， 来管理和理性利用 这曾一度遥远的区域。
So on this tour, I hope I provided you with a new perspective of the high seas: one, that it is our home too, and that we need to work together if we are to make this a sustainable ocean future for us all.	因此，这趟旅程，我希望能带给你们 一个有关公海的全新视角， 公海只有一个，它也是我们的家园。 我们需要共同努力， 如果我们要使公海在未来成为可持续的属于所有人的海洋。
Thank you.	谢谢。
I want to share with you over the next 18 minutes a pretty incredible idea.	我要 在接下来的18分钟内 与大家分享一个不可思议的愿景
Actually, it's a really big idea.	一个非常雄伟的愿景
But to get us started, I want to ask if everyone could just close your eyes for two seconds and try and think of a technology or a bit of science that you think has changed the world.	不过首先 我想请在座各位 闭上双眼在几秒钟内想一想 某种技术或者科学 在你看来，改变了世界
Now I bet, in this audience, you're thinking of some really incredible technology, some stuff that I haven't even heard of, I'm absolutely sure.	我打赌，这里所有的观众 你一定想到了某种神奇的技术 某种我甚至没听说过的玩意儿 绝对是的
But I'm also sure, pretty sure, that absolutely nobody is thinking of this.	但我同时也确信，非常肯定 绝对没有人想到它
This is a polio vaccine.	这是一支脊髓灰质炎疫苗
And it's a great thing actually that nobody's had to think about it here today because it means that we can take this for granted.	其实，这很好 今天在座没人想到它 是因为我们已将它视为理所当然
This is a great technology.	这是一项伟大的技术
We can take it completely for granted.	我们可以完全地应用它
But it wasn't always that way.	但是过去并不是这样
Even here in California, if we were to go back just a few years, it was a very different story.	甚至就在这里，加利福尼亚 如果退后几十年 情况可大不相同
People were terrified of this disease.	当时，人们惧怕这种疾病
They were terrified of polio, and it would cause public panic.	他们十分害怕脊髓灰质炎，它能引起公众惊恐
And it was because of scenes like this.	原因就如图中所示
In this scene, people are living in an iron lung.	在这张图片里 人们生活在铁制的肺中
These are people who were perfectly healthy two or three days before, and then two days later, they can no longer breathe, and this polio virus has paralyzed not only their arms and their legs, but also their breathing muscles.	这些人，两三天前还相当健康 可几天后 便丧失呼吸功能 脊髓灰质炎病毒 不仅仅瘫痪了他们的四肢 就连控制呼吸的肌肉也不放过
And they were going to spend the rest of their lives, usually, in this iron lung to breathe for them.	通常，他们的余生都得在 铁肺里度过
This disease was terrifying.	这个疾病十分可怕
There was no cure, and there was no vaccine.	当时却没有疗法 也没有疫苗
The disease was so terrifying that the president of the United States launched an extraordinary national effort to find a way to stop it.	这个疾病如此恐怖 以至于当时的美国总统 发动了一场声势浩大的全国运动 来试图阻止它的传播
Twenty years later, they succeeded and developed the polio vaccine.	二十年后，他们成功地 开发出脊髓灰质炎疫苗
It was hailed as a scientific miracle in the late 1950s.	这被视为科学奇迹 当时是20世纪50年代末
Finally, a vaccine that could stop this awful disease, and here in the United States it had an incredible impact.	终于，有一种疫苗能够阻止这种可怕的疾病 在美国 它有着惊人的影响力
As you can see, the virus stopped, and it stopped very, very fast.	正如我们所知，病毒被遏制 并且很快被遏制
But this wasn't the case everywhere in the world.	可并不是 全世界都如此
And it happened so fast in the United States, however, that even just last month Jon Stewart said this: Jon Stewart: Where is polio still active?	虽然在美国，情况迅速好转，但是 甚至就在上个月，乔恩·斯图尔特问我 乔恩·斯图尔特：脊髓灰质炎还活跃在哪些地方呢？
Because I thought that had been eradicated in the way that smallpox had been eradicated.	我以为它已经被灭绝 就如天花从地球上消失一样
Bruce Aylward: Oops. Jon, polio's almost been eradicated.	布鲁斯·艾尔沃德：哎，乔恩，脊髓灰质炎是几乎被灭绝了
But the reality is that polio still exists today.	但现实是 它仍然存在于世间
We made this map for Jon to try to show him exactly where polio still exists.	我们绘制了疾病分布图，给乔恩展示了目前的状况
This is the picture.	这就是那张图
There's not very much left in the world.	存于世界的病源已经很好了
But the reason there's not very much left is because there's been an extraordinary public/private partnership working behind the scenes, almost unknown, I'm sure to most of you here today.	而这是因为 有一个非常出色的公私合作组织 一直在幕后积极工作 我肯定今天在座几乎都没听说过这个组织
It's been working for 20 years to try and eradicate this disease, and it's got it down to these few cases that you can see here on this graphic.	在过去20年来 这个组织一直试图根除这种疾病 并终于将其影响区域下降到 我们现在看到的状况
But just last year, we had an incredible shock and realized that almost just isn't good enough with a virus like polio.	但就在去年 我们被强烈震动 我们似乎总是做得不够 难以应对像脊髓灰质炎这样的病毒
And this is the reason: in two countries that hadn't had this disease for more than probably a decade, on opposite sides of the globe, there was suddenly terrible polio outbreaks.	原因如下 有两个国家 十多年未出现脊髓灰质炎 它们各位于地球两端 却突然都爆发了严重的脊髓灰质炎
Hundreds of people were paralyzed.	数百人瘫痪
Hundreds of people died -- children as well as adults.	死亡人数上百-- 儿童和成年人都成了受害者
And in both cases, we were able to use genetic sequencing to look at the polio viruses, and we could tell these viruses were not from these countries.	在这两个国家 我们都运用了基因排序的方法来观察查病毒 发现这些病毒并不是来自本土
They had come from thousands of miles away.	他们从几千公里外的地方远道而来
And in one case, it originated on another continent.	其中一个国家的病毒竟来自于另一个大陆
And not only that, but when they came into these countries, then they got on commercial jetliners probably and they traveled even farther to other places like Russia, where, for the first time in over a decade last year, children were crippled and paralyzed by a disease that they had not seen for years.	不仅如此，当他们进入这些国家后 很可能又登上了商务航班 飞到了更远的地方 如俄罗斯 在那里，去年，十多年来第一次 有儿童因脊髓灰质炎而瘫痪 而当地已多年未见这种疾病
Now all of these outbreaks that I just showed you, these are under control now, and it looks like they'll probably stop very, very quickly.	刚才我展示给你的这些疾病突发区域 情况已经得到控制 并且看起来它们很快将停止
But the message was very clear.	但信息是清晰的
Polio is still a devastating, explosive disease.	脊髓灰质炎仍然是 毁灭性，爆炸性的疾病
It's just happening in another part of the world.	它不过正在世界另外一个角落发生
And our big idea is that the scientific miracle of this decade should be the complete eradication of poliomyelitis.	我们巨大的愿景是 本时代的科学奇迹 将彻底根除 脊髓灰质炎
So I want to tell you a little bit about what this partnership, the Polio Partnership, is trying to do.	在这里，我想要介绍一下 之前提到的合作伙伴组织，脊髓灰质炎合作机构 当前的工作
We're not trying to control polio.	我们不是单纯去控制脊髓灰质炎
We're not trying to get it down to just a few cases, because this disease is like a root fire; it can explode again if you don't snuff it out completely.	将它的发病率降低到极低 因为这种疾病就像是火种 若不完全熄灭，它随时可能爆发
So what we're looking for is a permanent solution.	因此我们寻求的 是一种永久的解决方案
We want a world in which every child, just like you guys, can take for granted a polio-free world.	我们希望在这个世界，每个孩子，都能像在座各位一样 不用再为 脊髓灰质炎而担心
So we're looking for a permanent solution, and this is where we get lucky.	是的，我们在寻找一种永久的解决方案 幸运的是
This is one of the very few viruses in the world where there are big enough cracks in its armor that we can try to do something truly extraordinary.	脊髓灰质炎属于这样一种少见的病毒类 其本身带有一定缺陷 让人类可以攻克，并取得伟大成就
This virus can only survive in people.	脊髓灰质炎病毒只能在人体中存活
It can't live for a very long time in people.	并且存活时间很短
It doesn't survive in the environment hardly at all.	它在自然界中几乎无法生存
And we've got pretty good vaccines, as I've just showed you.	我们有很有效的疫苗，我刚才已展示给各位
So we are trying to wipe out this virus completely.	此我们正努力 彻底根除这种病毒
What the polio eradication program is trying to do is to kill the virus itself that causes polio everywhere on Earth.	脊髓灰质炎根除项目正试图 根除这种病毒本身 来防止导致脊髓灰质炎 在地球上肆意蔓延
Now we don't have a great track record when it comes to doing something like this, to eradicating diseases.	我们并不擅长 根除疾病 这样的任务
It's been tried six times in the last century, and it's been successful exactly once.	上个世纪我们尝试了六次 但只有一次真正成功
And this is because disease eradication, it's still the venture capital of public health.	因为疾病根除 仍是公众健康的风险资金
The risks are massive, but the pay-off -- economic, humanitarian, motivational -- it's absolutely huge.	风险是巨大的 但回报 无论从经济，全人类，还是推动力来看 也都是巨大的
One congressman here in the United States thinks that the entire investment that the U.S. put into smallpox eradication pays itself off every 26 days -- in foregone treatment costs and vaccination costs.	美国一位国会议员认为 美国投入的 用以根除天花的全部投资 每26天就能收回一次成本 通过抵消治疗成本 和疫苗的成本
And if we can finish polio eradication, the poorest countries in the world are going to save over 50 billion dollars in the next 25 years alone.	如果我们能够完全根除小儿麻痹症 世界上最穷的那些国家 则将节省500亿美元 时间是仅在未来的25年内
So those are the kind of stakes that we're after.	这就是我们追求的利益
But smallpox eradication was hard; it was very, very hard.	但是根除天花的过程是很困难的 相当，相当艰难
And polio eradication, in many ways, is even tougher, and there's a few reasons for that.	而要根除小儿麻痹症，从很多方面来讲，还要难 这里有几个因素
The first is that, when we started trying to eradicate polio about 20 years ago, more than twice as many countries were infected than had been when we started off with smallpox.	首先 我们开始尝试根除脊髓灰质炎时 时间大概是20年前 当时，被其感染的国家数量 是开始根除天花之际的两倍多
And there were more than 10 times as many people living in these countries.	而感染脊髓灰质炎国家的人口数 超过感染天花的10倍
So it was a massive effort.	因此当时的努力是艰巨的
The second challenge we had was -- in contrast to the smallpox vaccine, which was very stable, and a single dose protected you for life -- the polio vaccine is incredibly fragile.	我们面临的第二个挑战是-- 脊髓灰质炎疫苗与天花疫苗性质不同 天花疫苗性质稳定，打一次就终身免疫 而脊髓灰质炎疫苗是否脆弱
It deteriorates so quickly in the tropics that we've had to put this special vaccine monitor on every single vial so that it will change very quickly when it's exposed to too much heat, and we can tell that it's not a good vaccine to use on a child -- it's not potent; it's not going to protect them.	在赤道地区，它很快变质 我们必须将特殊的疫苗检测器 安在每支疫苗上 因此它能迅速做出反应 当疫苗因为受热过多而改变性质时 我们便知道它不再适用于儿童 因为效力不够，无法保护儿童
Even then, kids need many doses of the vaccine.	即便这样，儿童仍然需要多次注射疫苗
But the third challenge we have -- and probably even bigger one, the biggest challenge -- is that, in contrast to smallpox where you could always see your enemy -- every single person almost who was infected with smallpox had this telltale rash.	我们当时面临的第三个挑战 很可能是最大的一个挑战 与天花作战时，我们总能看清敌人 几乎每个感染天花的人 都会长出明显的疹子
So you could get around the disease; you could vaccinate around the disease and cut it off.	因此我们可以从疾病周边入手 给疾病存在的周边区域打疫苗,将其断绝
With polio it's almost completely different.	而脊髓灰质炎则全然不同
The vast majority of people who are infected with the polio virus show absolutely no sign of the disease.	绝大多数被病毒感染的人 不会表现出任何迹象
So you can't see the enemy most of the time, and as a result, we've needed a very different approach to eradicate polio than what was done with smallpox.	因此很多时候我们根本看不见敌人 因此 我们需要一种与应对天花非常不同的方式 来根除脊髓灰质炎
We've had to create one of the largest social movements in history.	我们不得不创造出 历史上最大的社会运动之一
There's over 10 million people, probably 20 million people, largely volunteers, who have been working over the last 20 years in what has now been called the largest internationally-coordinated operation in peacetime.	投入人数超过一千万 甚至接近两千万 大多为志愿者 他们过去二十年来一直努力 贡献于现在被称为 和平年代最大的国际协同运作
These people, these 20 million people, vaccinate over 500 million children every single year, multiple times at the peak of our operation.	这些人，这两千万人 给五亿多的儿童注射疫苗 每年如此 在运作繁忙的时候 注射数量增倍
Now giving the polio vaccine is simple.	注射脊髓灰质炎疫苗很简单
It's just two drops, like that.	就是这样简单的两针
But reaching 500 million people is much, much tougher.	但要普及五亿多人 那可是难上加难
And these vaccinators, these volunteers, they have got to dive headlong into some of the toughest, densest urban slums in the world.	这些疫苗注射者，这些志愿者们 必须投身到 一些环境最恶劣的 城市贫民窟中
They've got to trek under sweltering suns to some of the most remote, difficult to reach places in the world.	必须在炎阳下跋涉 到一些最遥远，最难以到达的地方
And they also have to dodge bullets, because we have got to operate during shaky cease-fires and truces to try and vaccinate children, even in areas affected by conflict.	有时他们也要躲避战火 因为我们必须要运作 即使在不稳定的停火和休战条约下 也要给孩子注射疫苗 在卷入冲突的地区也如此
One reporter who was watching our program in Somalia about five years ago -- a place which has eradicated polio, not once, but twice, because they got reinfected.	一个记者 五年前曾关注我们在索马里的项目 在那里，脊髓灰质炎曾被根除 然而，不是一次，而是两次，因其再度蔓延
He was sitting outside of the road, watching one of these polio campaigns unfold, and a few months later he wrote: "This is foreign aid at its most heroic."	他坐在路边 关注一项脊髓灰质炎运动是如何展开的 几个月后他写道 这是最伟大的外来援助
And these heroes, they come from every walk of life, all sorts of backgrounds.	这些英雄，他们来自各行各业 各种背景
But one of the most extraordinary is Rotary International.	但其中最卓越的是国际扶轮社
This is a group whose million-strong army of volunteers have been working to eradicate polio for over 20 years.	这个组织中 有上百万的志愿者 为根除脊髓灰质炎 努力了二十年
They're right at the center of the whole thing.	他们是整个运动的正中心
Now it took years to build up the infrastructure for polio eradication -- more than 15 years, much longer than it should have -- but once it was built, the results were striking.	我们花了很多时间来发展基础建设 为的是根除脊髓灰质炎 超过十五年，比我们预计要长 但一旦建成，效果是显著的
Within a couple of years, every country that started polio eradication rapidly eradicated all three of their polio viruses, with the exception of four countries that you see here.	几年之类 那些开始进行脊髓灰质炎根除的国家 迅速地消灭了现有的三种脊髓灰质炎病毒 唯一例外是图表上的这四个国家
And in each of those, it was only part of the country.	而在这几个国家中，疾病都只存在于一小部分区域
And then, by 1999, one of the three polio viruses that we were trying to eradicate had been completely eradicated worldwide -- proof of concept.	1999年 我们试图根除的 三种脊髓灰质炎病毒其中之一 被完全地在全世界消灭 证明了这是有效的方式
And then today, there's been a 99 percent reduction -- greater than 99 percent reduction -- in the number of children who are being paralyzed by this awful disease.	今天 有百分之九十九 超过百分之九十九的 儿童 免于因这恐怖疾病而瘫痪
When we started, over 20 years ago, 1,000 children were being paralyzed every single day by this virus.	而在二十多年前我们开始之际 一千名儿童因它瘫痪 这是每一天的数据
Last year, it was 1,000.	去年一年的总数仅为一千
And at the same time, the polio eradication program has been working to help with a lot of other areas.	同时 脊髓灰质炎根除项目 也在帮助其他领域的工作
It's been working to help control pandemic flu, SARS for example.	比如控制流行感冒 非典型肺炎
It's also tried to save children by doing other things -- giving vitamin A drops, giving measles shots, giving bed nets against malaria even during some of these campaigns.	它也试图通过其他方式来拯救儿童 例如注射维他命A，注射麻疹药物 散发蚊帐来抵御疟疾 在这些运动中
But the most exciting thing that the polio eradication program has been doing has been to force us, the international community, to reach every single child, every single community, the most vulnerable people in the world, with the most basic of health services, irrespective of geography, poverty, culture and even conflict.	最振奋人心的是 脊髓灰质炎根除项目的行动 也促使我们 国际社区 来采取行动，帮助每一个儿童，每一个社区-- 帮助那些最脆弱的人群 给予他们最基本的医疗服务 无论地理，贫困 文化甚至武装冲突状况如何
So things were looking very exciting, and then about five years ago, this virus, this ancient virus, started to fight back.	进展本来激动人心 可大概在五年前 这种病毒，这种古老的病毒，重回战场
The first problem we ran into was that, in these last four countries, the strongholds of this virus, we just couldn't seem to get the virus rooted out.	我们遇到的第一个问题是 在最后的四个国家，这种病毒的根据地 我们似乎无法将它根除
And then to make the matters even worse, the virus started to spread out of these four places, especially northern India and northern Nigeria, into much of Africa, Asia, and even into Europe, causing horrific outbreaks in places that had not seen this disease for decades.	更糟糕的是 病毒开始在这四个国家以外的地区传播 特别是在印度北部和尼日尼亚北部 它深入到非洲亚洲多数地区，甚至是欧洲 导致了极大的爆发 而这些地方已经几十年没有出现过这种疾病
And then, in one of the most important, tenacious and toughest reservoirs of the polio virus in the world, we found that our vaccine was working half as well as it should have.	然后 在最重要，最顽固的 脊髓灰质炎病毒感染区 我们发现我们的疫苗 效力减半
In conditions like this, the vaccine just couldn't get the grip it needed to in the guts of these children and protect them the way that it needed to.	在这种情况下 疫苗无法满足要求的时间 进入孩子的胃中 按他们需要的方式来保护他们
Now at that time, there was a great, as you can imagine, frustration -- let's call it frustration -- it started to grow very, very quickly.	在那时 我们感到一种巨大的，你能够想象的 沮丧，我们暂且称之为沮丧吧 它开始迅速蔓延
And all of a sudden, some very important voices in the world of public health started to say, "Hang on.	突然，一些世界公众医疗领域 很重要的声音 开始说，等等
We should abandon this idea of eradication.	我们应该放弃根除的目标
Let's settle for control -- that's good enough."	我们以控制为目标吧，这其实已足够
Now as seductive as the idea of control sounds, it's a false premise.	控制这一主意听起来是不错 可它是一张空头支票
The brutal truth is, if we don't have the will or the skill, or even the money that we need to reach children, the most vulnerable children in the world, with something as simple as an oral polio vaccine, then pretty soon, more than 200,000 children are again going to be paralyzed by this disease every single year.	残酷的现实是 如果我们没有愿望或技能 或者所需的资金 来帮助儿童，那些世界上最脆弱的儿童 哪怕方法是通过简单的 口头脊髓灰质炎疫苗 那么很快 超过二十万的儿童 将再一次因脊髓灰质炎而瘫痪 每年如此
There's absolutely no question.	毫无疑问
These are children like Umar.	乌玛就是其中之一
Umar is seven years old, and he's from northern Nigeria.	他七岁 来自尼日尼亚北部
He lives in a family home there with his eight brothers and sisters.	他住在一家中 与他的八个兄弟姐妹在一起
Umar also has polio.	乌玛有脊髓灰质炎
Umar was paralyzed for life.	终身瘫痪
His right leg was paralyzed in 2004.	他的右腿 在2004年瘫痪
This leg, his right leg, now takes an awful beating because he has to half-crawl, because it's faster to move that way to keep up with his friends, keep up with his brothers and sisters, than to get up on his crutches and walk.	这只腿，他的右腿 现在受到严重的损害 因为它必须半爬行 才能行动得更快 才能跟上他的朋友，兄弟姐妹 这比靠拐杖行走要快
But Umar is a fantastic student. He's an incredible kid.	但乌玛也是一个非常优秀的学生，一个不可思议的孩子
As you probably can't see the detail here, but this is his report card, and you'll see, he's got perfect scores.	你可能难以看清细节 这是他的成绩卡 如你所见，他成绩完美
He got 100 percent in all the important things, like nursery rhymes, for example there.	所有的重要科目他都拿了满分 比如这儿，儿歌
But you know I'd love to be able to tell you that Umar is a typical kid with polio these days, but it's not true.	我也希望能够告诉各位 乌玛是目前典型的一个患脊髓灰质炎的儿童 但事实不是这样
Umar is an exceptional kid in exceptional circumstances.	他是个例外的孩子 处在例外的环境中
The reality of polio today is something very different.	今天，脊髓灰质炎的现实 与以前大不相同
Polio strikes the poorest communities in the world.	它打击的是世界上最穷困的社会群体
It leaves their children paralyzed, and it drags their families deeper into poverty, because they're desperately searching and they're desperately spending the little bit of savings that they have, trying in vain to find a cure for their children.	它让孩子们瘫痪 让他们的家庭 深陷贫困 因为他们绝望地搜寻疗法 绝望地花费掉那少得可怜的积蓄 却徒劳无获 找不到拯救孩子的办法
We think children deserve better.	我们相信，孩子们应该过得更好
And so when the going got really tough in the polio eradication program about two years ago, when people were saying, "We should call it off," the Polio Partnership decided to buckle down once again and try and find innovative new solutions, new ways to get to the children that we were missing again and again.	我们的脊髓灰质炎根除项目 曾一度举步维艰 那大概是两年前的时候 人们都说，"我们应该停止了" 而脊髓灰质炎伙伴机构 决定再次投身其中 寻找创新的解决方案 用新的方式来拯救那些 被我们一再遗落的孩子们
In northern India, we started mapping the cases using satellite imaging like this, so that we could guide our investments and vaccinator shelters, so we could get to the millions of children on the Koshi River basin where there are no other health services.	在印度北部，我们开始绘制疾病分布图 应用这样的卫星成像 我们能够引导我们的投资和接种员队伍 找到上百万儿童 他们居住在波曲河盆地 那里没有其他任何医疗服务
In northern Nigeria, the political leaders and the traditional Muslim leaders, they got directly involved in the program to help solve the problems of logistics and community confidence.	在尼日尼亚北部 政治领导和传统穆斯林领导 都直接参与到项目中 帮助解决物流问题 建立社区信心
And now they've even started using these devices -- speaking of cool technology -- these little devices, little GIS trackers like this, which they put into the vaccine carriers of their vaccinators.	现在他们开始运用这些设备 这些高科技 这些小型的GIS跟踪器 被放到接种员的疫苗携带器中
And then they can track them, and at the end of the day, they look and see, did these guys get every single street, every single house.	这样他们可以跟踪接种员 每天工作结束之际，他们会检查 看看这些人是否到访了每条街的每户人家
This is the kind of commitment now we're seeing to try and reach all of the children we've been missing.	我们需要的就是这样的承诺 来找到所有那些被我们遗落的儿童
And in Afghanistan, we're trying new approaches -- access negotiators.	在阿富汗，我们尝试新的方法 通入谈判者
We're working closely with the International Committee of the Red Cross to ensure that we can reach every child.	我们与国际红十字委员会紧密合作 保证我们能够触及每个孩子
But as we tried these extraordinary things, as people went to this trouble to try and rework their tactics, we went back to the vaccine -- it's a 50-year-old vaccine -- and we thought, surely we can make a better vaccine, so that when they finally get to these kids, we can have a better bang for our buck.	在我们尝试这些独特的方式 当人们费劲心思 重新制定战略的同时 我们再度回到疫苗本身，这疫苗已有50年历史 我们确信，我们能够研制出更好的疫苗 因此当儿童最终接收到疫苗时 我们会取得更好的预防效果
And this started an incredible collaboration with industry, and within six months, we were testing a new polio vaccine that targeted, just two years ago, the last two types of polio in the world.	我们在行业内进行了辉煌的合作 六个月后 我们便开始测试一种新型疫苗 针对的是，自前年以来 世界上余下的两种脊髓灰质炎病毒
Now June the ninth, 2009, we got the first results from the first trial with this vaccine, and it turned out to be a game-changer.	2009年6月9日 我们得到了第一批疫苗的测试结果 这是一个转折点
The new vaccine had twice the impact on these last couple of viruses as the old vaccine had, and we immediately started using this.	新的疫苗的效应 针对这最后的两种病毒 比旧的强一倍 我们立刻投入使用新疫苗
Well, in a couple of months we had to get it out of production.	几个月后，我们便生产出成品
And it started rolling off the production lines and into the mouths of children around the world.	疫苗源源不断地从生产线上 被送到世界各地儿童口中
And we didn't start with the easy places.	我们并不是从容易的地方开始
The first place this vaccine was used was in southern Afghanistan, because it's in places like that where kids are going to benefit the most from technologies like this.	第一个采用新疫苗的地方 是阿富汗南部 因为正是在这些地方 孩子们最能从 这样的新科技中获益
Now here at TED, over the last couple of days, I've seen people challenging the audience again and again to believe in the impossible.	现在，在这里，最近几天 我看到各位发言人不断挑战观众 去相信不可能的事物
So this morning at about seven o'clock, I decided that we'd try to drive Chris and the production crew here berserk by downloading all of our data from India again, so that you could see something that's just unfolding today, which proves that the impossible is possible.	所以今天早上7点左右 我决定要把克里斯 和出品团队弄得抓狂 我再次下载我们印度的所有数据 为了各位能看到 我们今天刚刚发生的事情 它证明了不可能也能成为可能
And only two years ago, people were saying that this is impossible.	而就在两年前，人们还说这是不可能发生的
Now remember, northern India is the perfect storm when it comes to polio.	大家都还记得，印度北部 是脊髓灰质炎的风暴之地
Over 500,000 children are born in the two states that have never stopped polio -- Uttar Pradesh and Bihar -- 500,000 children every single month.	超过500，000名儿童 出生于这两个从未中止脊髓灰质炎的地区-- 他们是Uttar Pradesh和Bihar省 500,000名儿童，每个月出生
Sanitation is terrible, and our old vaccine, you remember, worked half as well as it should have.	卫生条件极其糟糕 而我们的旧疫苗，你知道的 效力只有一半
And yet, the impossible is happening.	但是不可能的事情正在发生
Today marks exactly six months -- and for the first time in history, not a single child has been paralyzed in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar.	今天刚好满六个月 这是历史上第一次 没有一个孩子因脊髓灰质炎而瘫痪 这是Uttar Pradesh和Bihar省的情况
India's not unique.	掌声 不仅在印度
In Umar's home country of Nigeria, a 95 percent reduction in the number of children paralyzed by polio last year.	在乌玛的家乡尼日尼亚 有百分之九十五的减少 出现在去年因脊髓灰质炎瘫痪的儿童数量中
And in the last six months, we've had less places reinfected by polio than at any other time in history.	在过去六个月 脊髓灰质炎再感染地区的数量 也下降到历史以来最低
Ladies and gentlemen, with a combination of smart people, smart technology and smart investments, polio can now be eradicated anywhere.	女士们先生们，我们结合了 人类的智慧，先进的科技 创新的发明 使得脊髓灰质炎无处藏身
We have major challenges, you can imagine, to finish this job, but as you've also seen, it's doable, it has great secondary benefits, and polio eradication is a great buy.	我们面临巨大的挑战，如你所知 来完成这项事业 但你也看到了 它可能的 它能带来巨大的衍生利益 而根除脊髓灰质炎是一笔很棒的交易
And as long as any child anywhere is paralyzed by this virus, it's a stark reminder that we are failing, as a society, to reach children with the most basic of services.	只要世界上还有儿童 因其瘫痪 就提醒着我们 整个社会就还未成功地给儿童 提供最基本的服务
And for that reason, polio eradication: it's the ultimate in equity and it's the ultimate in social justice.	因此，根除脊髓灰质炎 意味着最终的平等 和社会公正
The huge social movement that's been involved in polio eradication is ready to do way more for these children.	这个巨大的社会活动群体 一直以来参与到根除脊髓灰质炎事业中 正准备为这些儿童贡献更多
It's ready to reach them with bed nets, with other things.	给他们提供蚊帐，以及其他
But capitalizing on their enthusiasm, capitalizing on their energy means finishing the job that they started 20 years ago.	而利用他们的热情 他们的能量 意味着完成 这项20年前开始的工作
Finishing polio is a smart thing to do, and it's the right thing to do.	根除脊髓灰质炎是一件明智的事 同时也是正确的
Now we're in tough times economically.	现在我们处在金融困难时期
But as David Cameron of the United Kingdom said about a month ago when he was talking about polio, "There's never a wrong time to do the right thing."	但正如英国大卫·卡梅隆首相 一个月前谈到脊髓灰质炎时所说的 "做合适的事情 从来没有错误的时间"
Finishing polio eradication is the right thing to do.	而根除脊髓灰质炎 就是这样无比正确一件事
And we are at a crossroads right now in this great effort over the last 20 years.	我们现在处在十字路口 经过20年来艰难的努力
We have a new vaccine, we have new resolve, and we have new tactics.	我们有了新的疫苗 我们有了新的解决方式 有了新的战术
We have the chance to write an entirely new polio-free chapter in human history.	我们有机会 将告别脊髓灰质炎的新篇章 书写进人类历史
But if we blink now, we will lose forever the chance to eradicate an ancient disease.	但稍一恍惚 我们便可能永远失去 彻底根除这个古老疾病的机会
Here's a great idea to spread: End polio now.	这就是我今天要传播的愿景 立即根除脊髓灰质炎
Help us tell the story.	请帮我们传播这个故事吧
Help us build the momentum so that very soon every child, every parent everywhere can also take for granted a polio-free life forever.	帮我们筑造声势 那么很快 每一个孩子，每一个父母 不论在哪里 都能理所应当地 永远不再为脊髓灰质炎担忧
Thank you.	谢谢大家
Bill Gates: Well Bruce, where do you think the toughest places are going to be?	掌声 比尔·盖茨：布鲁斯，你认为最困难的地方在哪里
Where would you say we need to be the smartest?	我们需要在那些地方特别谨慎
B The four places where you saw, that we've never stopped -- northern Nigeria, northern India, the southern corner of Afghanistan and bordering areas of Pakistan -- they're going to be the toughest.	布鲁斯·艾尔沃德：就是你刚才看到的那四个地方，我们从未中止过疾病的区域 尼日尼亚北部，印度北部 阿富汗南角 和巴基斯坦交界处 这些区域是最困难的
But the interesting thing is, of those three, India's looking real good, as you just saw in the data.	关于其中三个国家，有一点很有趣 印度现在情况很好，正如刚才的数据显示
And Afghanistan, Afghanistan, we think has probably stopped polio repeatedly.	在阿富汗，我们 大概多次了中断了脊髓灰质炎感染
It keeps getting reinfected.	但它又不断复发
So the tough ones: going to get the top of Nigeria finished and getting Pakistan finished.	因此最困难的是尼日尼亚北部 和巴基斯坦
They're going to be the tough ones.	它们是我们最难根除脊髓灰质炎的地区
Now what about the money?	比尔·盖茨：资金方面呢？
Give us a sense of how much the campaign costs a year.	这场运动每年大概会耗费多少钱
And is it easy to raise that money?	资金的筹集容易吗？
And what's it going to be like the next couple of years?	接下来几年情况如何？
B It's interesting.	布鲁斯·艾尔沃德：这一点比较有趣
We spend right now about 750 million to 800 million dollars a year.	我们现在每年花费7.5 到8亿美元
That's what it costs to reach 500 million children.	这是帮助5亿儿童的花费
It sounds like a lot of money; it is a lot of money.	这数目听起来很大，的确，是花了很多钱
But when you're reaching 500 million children multiple times -- 20, 30 cents to reach a child -- that's not very much money.	但用这些钱，我们能给5亿儿童提供多次的帮助 每个儿童仅花费了20到 30美分 这其实是很少的数目
But right now we don't have enough of that.	而现在我们资金不够
We have a big gap in that money. We're cutting corners, and every time we cut corners, more places get infected that shouldn't have, and it just slows us down.	我们差的还很远。因此我们在减少开支 但每减少一次 就意味着更多本不该被感染的地区受到感染，同时减缓我们的进度
And that great buy costs us a little bit more.	而这项伟大交易的成本又上涨了一些
Well, hopefully we'll get the word out, and the governments will keep their generosity up.	比尔·盖茨：希望我们可以 让政府慷慨许诺，资助这项事业
So good luck. We're all in this with you.	祝好运，我们都支持你们
Thank you.	非常感谢（比尔·盖茨：谢谢你）
	掌声
Hi, my name is Frank, and I collect secrets.	弗兰克·沃伦:大家好,我叫弗兰克 我收集秘密
It all started with a crazy idea in November of 2004.	2004年的11月 我有了一个疯狂的想法
I printed up 3,000 self-addressed postcards, just like this.	我印制了3000张带返邮地址的明信片 就像这样
They were blank on one side, and on the other side I listed some simple instructions.	明信片的一侧是空白的 而在另外一侧 我加上了一些简单的说明
I asked people to anonymously share an artful secret they'd never told anyone before.	我让人们把他们从来没有告诉过任何人的秘密 与其他人分享
And I handed out these postcards randomly on the streets of Washington, D.C., not knowing what to expect.	然后我在华盛顿特区的大街上 随机分发这些明信片 我不知道接下来会发生什么
But soon the idea began spreading virally.	但是这个想法迅速传播开来了
People began to buy their own postcards and make their own postcards.	人们开始自己买明信片 并且写上他们的秘密
I started receiving secrets in my home mailbox, not just with postmarks from Washington, D.C., but from Texas, California, Vancouver, New Zealand, Iraq.	我开始在我家里的邮箱里收到各种秘密 这些秘密不仅仅来自华盛顿特区 还有来自德克萨斯州和加利福尼亚的 甚至还有来自温哥华,新西兰,还有伊拉克的
Soon my crazy idea didn't seem so crazy.	很快我发现这个主意并没有我想象的那么疯狂
PostSecret.com is the most visited advertisement-free blog in the world.	PostSecret.com 成为了世界上访问量最大的无广告博客
And this is my postcard collection today.	这些是我收藏的所有明信片
You can see my wife struggling to stack a brick of postcards on a pyramid of over a half-million secrets.	你可以看见我的妻子 正在努力地把一堆砖块厚的明信片 放在在由超过五十万个秘密构成的金字塔上
What I'd like to do now is share with you a very special handful of secrets from that collection, starting with this one.	我现在要做的 就是和你们分享一些我收藏中 相当特别的一些秘密 让我们从这个开始吧
"I found these stamps as a child, and I have been waiting all my life to have someone to send them to.	"当我还是一个小孩的时候我就有了这些邮票 但是我一生都在等着一个人 好让我用这些邮票寄信给某人
I never did have someone."	但是我没有等到。"
Secrets can take many forms.	秘密可以是多种多样的
They can be shocking or silly or soulful.	它们可以很震撼 很滑稽,或者饱含深情
They can connect us to our deepest humanity or with people we'll never meet.	分享秘密可以将我们带进人性的最深处 让我们和素不相识的人拥有某种联系
Maybe one of you sent this one in.	[遇到对我很粗鲁的顾客,我会给他们不含咖啡因的咖啡] 有一个人
I don't know.	把这个东西寄给了我
This one does a great job of demonstrating the creativity that people have when they make and mail me a postcard.	这一张很好地说明了 当人们在制作自己的明信片的时候 是多么的富有创造力
This one obviously was made out of half a Starbucks cup with a stamp and my home address written on the other side.	这一张很明显是半个星巴克纸杯做成的 他在另一侧贴上了邮票写上了我家地址
"Dear Birthmother, I have great parents.	"亲爱的生母,我现在有了很棒的养父母
I've found love. I'm happy."	我找到了爱,我很开心。"
Secrets can remind us of the countless human dramas, of frailty and heroism, playing out silently in the lives of people all around us even now.	秘密可以让我们想起无数的人间悲喜剧 关乎脆弱与坚强 在我们周围的人身上 悄悄的发生 而也在不断重演
"Everyone who knew me before 9/11 believes I'm dead."	"所有在911之前认识我的人 都以为我死了。"
"I used to work with a bunch of uptight religious people, so sometimes I didn't wear panties, and just had a big smile and chuckled to myself."	"我曾经和一群极其虔诚的信徒一起工作 所以在我没穿内裤的时候 尽管一直忍着,但是在心里头还总是坏笑。"
This next one takes a little explanation before I share it with you.	在我给你们看下一个之前,我要先说明一下
I love to speak on college campuses and share secrets and the stories with students.	我喜欢在大学校园里演讲 并且与学生们分享秘密和故事
And sometimes afterwards I'll stick around and sign books and take photos with students.	在这之后,我有时就会到处逛 签售一些书,和学生们合影
And this next postcard was made out of one of those photos.	就这样,其中的一张合影 就出现在了这张明信片上
And I should also mention that, just like today, at that PostSecret event, I was using a wireless microphone.	而且我必须说明 在那次会上,就像今天 我用了一只无线麦克风
"Your mic wasn't off during sound check.	"你在试音之后没有关掉麦克风
We all heard you pee."	我们都听到了你尿尿的声音。"
This was really embarrassing when it happened, until I realized it could have been worse.	这件事情一直都让我觉得很难为情 直到我想到,还好他们没有听到其他东西
Right. You know what I'm saying.	对吧,大家都懂的
"Inside this envelope is the ripped up remains of a suicide note I didn't use.	"在这个信封里 是我撕掉了的自杀遗书 还好我没有想要用它
I feel like the happiest person on Earth " "One of these men is the father of my son.	现在,我觉得我是这个星球上最开心的人了。" "这些人中的一个是我儿子的爸爸
He pays me a lot to keep it a secret."	他给了我一大笔封口费。"
"That Saturday when you wondered where I was, well, I was getting your ring.	"那个周六当你想着我在哪的时候 嗯,我在帮你买戒指呢
It's in my pocket right now."	它现在就在我的口袋里。"
I had this postcard posted on the PostSecret blog two years ago on Valentine's Day.	我在两年前的情人节 把这张明信片上的内容发在PostSecret的博客上
It was the very bottom, the last secret in the long column.	并且把它放在了一大串秘密的最后
And it hadn't been up for more than a couple hours before I received this exuberant email from the guy who mailed me this postcard.	短短的几个小时以后 我就收到了这封欢乐的邮件 是把那张明信片寄给我的那个家伙写来的
And he said, "Frank, I've got to share with you this story that just played out in my life."	他说："弗兰克，你知道吗 刚才发生了一件不可思议的事情。"
He said, "My knees are still shaking."	他说："现在我的腿还颤抖着"
He said, "For three years, my girlfriend and I, we've made it this Sunday morning ritual to visit the PostSecret blog together and read the secrets out loud.	他说："三年以来，我和我的女朋友 一直都把一起看PostSecret博客 视作每星期天早上的议程 我们一起大声地读出那些秘密
I read some to her, she reads some to me."	我给她读一些，她给我读一些。"
He says, "It's really brought us closer together through the years.	他说："就这样，这些年来 我们也越来越亲近了
And so when I discovered that you had posted my surprise proposal to my girlfriend at the very bottom, I was beside myself.	而当我发现 你把我给我女朋友的求婚惊喜 藏在了这堆秘密的最后的时候 我高兴得快魂不附体了
And I tried to act calm, not to give anything away.	于是我装作什么事也没发生
And just like every Sunday, we started reading the secrets out loud to each other."	就像之前的每一个星期天 我们开始向对方读出这一个个秘密。"
He said, "But this time it seemed like it was taking her forever to get through each one."	"但是这一次，她读出每一个秘密用的时间 对于我来说都像是千万年。"
But she finally did.	但是她最后终于看到了
She got to that bottom secret, his proposal to her.	在最底下的那个她男朋友向她求婚的秘密
And he said, "She read it once and then she read it again."	"她读了一次，又读了一次"
And she turned to him and said, "Is that our cat?"	她然后转身问我， "那只猫是我们的猫吗？"
And when she saw him, he was down on one knee, he had the ring out.	而当她看到他的时候 她的男友正单膝跪地，把戒指递给她
He popped the question, she said yes. It was a very happy ending.	他问出了那个问题，得到了肯定回复。多美好的结局。
So I emailed him back and I said, "Please share with me an image, something, that I can share with the whole PostSecret community and let everyone know your fairy tale ending."	于是我回复他 "发给我一张你们的照片吧 这样我就可以和整个PostSecret社区 还有所有的人分享你们童话般的结局。"
And he emailed me this picture.	所以他就把这张照片传给了我
"I found your camera at Lollapalooza this summer.	"夏天的时候我在洛拉帕罗扎Lollapalooza发现了你的相机
I finally got the pictures developed and I'd love to give them to you."	我最后把这些照片洗出来了 我很想把它们还给你。"
This picture never got returned back to the people who lost it, but this secret has impacted many lives, starting with a student up in Canada named Matty.	这张照片一直都没有 被失主认领 但是这个秘密影响了很多人 从一个叫马蒂的学生开始吧 他来自加拿大
Matty was inspired by that secret to start his own website, a website called IFoundYourCamera.	马蒂受到这个秘密的触动 成立了自己的网站 叫做"我找到了你的相机"
Matty invites people to mail him digital cameras that they've found, memory sticks that have been lost with orphan photos.	马蒂邀请人们 把他们捡到的数码相机 或者丢失了的相片记忆卡 寄给他
And Matty takes the pictures off these cameras and posts them on his website every week.	每周马蒂都会把这些相机里的照片取出来 然后发到网上
And people come to visit to see if they can identify a picture they've lost or help somebody else get the photos back to them that they might be desperately searching for.	人们便可以在网站上 看他们能不能认出自己丢失了的照片 或者帮其他人找到 他们一直苦苦寻找的照片
This one's my favorite.	这是我最喜欢的一张
Matty has found this ingenious way to leverage the kindness of strangers.	马蒂独创了这个方法 来扩大善良陌生人的作用
And it might seem like a simple idea, and it is, but the impact it can have on people's lives can be huge.	这是一个简单的想法 但是它可以对一些人有巨大的影响
Matty shared with me an emotional email he received from the mother in that picture.	马蒂给我看过 一封给他的很深情邮件 是那幅照片里的妈妈寄给他的
"That's me, my husband and son.	"照片里的是我,还有我的丈夫,儿子
The other pictures are of my very ill grandmother.	其他的照片是我重病中的奶奶
Thank you for making your site.	幸亏有了你这个网站。
These pictures mean more to me than you know.	这些照片对于我比你能想象的要重要得多
My son's birth is on this camera.	这只相机见证了我儿子的出生
He turns four tomorrow."	他明天就四岁了。"
Every picture that you see there and thousands of others have been returned back to the person who lost it -- sometimes crossing oceans, sometimes going through language barriers.	大屏幕上的那几张照片 还有其它上千张 都已经还给了相应的失主-- 有时这些照片跨越了各个大洋 有时突破了语言的障碍
This is the last postcard I have to share with you today.	这是今天我想和你们分享的最后一张明信片
"When people I love leave voicemails on my phone I always save them in case they die tomorrow and I have no other way of hearing their voice ever again."	"当我爱的人 在我的电话语音邮箱里留言的时候 我总会保存下来,因为也许明天他们就会死去 要不然我就再也听不到 他们的声音了。"
When I posted this secret, dozens of people sent voicemail messages from their phones, sometimes ones they'd been keeping for years, messages from family or friends who had died.	当我在网上发布这个秘密的时候 许多人 发来了他们电话里保留着的语音信息 有些已经在里面好几年了 这些语音信息都是来自 他们死去了的家人或者朋友们的
They said that by preserving those voices and sharing them, it helped them keep the spirit of their loved ones alive.	他们说,他们留着这些声音 并且和别人分享 是为了让他们爱着的人永远活在自己心里
One young girl posted the last message she ever heard from her grandmother.	有一个女孩 发来了她从她奶奶听到的 最后的一条语音信息
Secrets can take many forms.	秘密可以有很多种
They can be shocking or silly or soulful.	可以是震撼,滑稽 或者饱含深情
They can connect us with our deepest humanity or with people we'll never meet again.	分享秘密可以将我们融进人性的最深处 让我们和素不相识的人有了某种联系
Voicemail recording: First saved voice message.	语音信箱记录:首条保存的语音信息
It's somebody's birthday today Somebody's birthday today The candles are lighted on somebody's cake And we're all invited for somebody's sake You're 21 years old today.	奶奶:今天是某人的生日 某人的生日 在她的蛋糕上 亮起了蜡烛 因为某人生日 我们都被邀请 今年你就21岁了
Have a real happy birthday, and I love you.	生日要很开心,我爱你
I'll say bye for now.	我要和你说再见了
Thank you.	弗兰克·沃伦:谢谢
Thank you.	谢谢
Frank, that was beautiful, so touching.	琼·科恩:弗兰克,那太美妙了 真的很感人
Have you ever sent yourself a postcard?	你自己给自己寄过明信片吗
Have you ever sent in a secret to PostSecret?	你自己给PostSecret发送过秘密吗
I have one of my own secrets in every book.	弗兰克·沃伦:我在我自己的每本书里都有我自己的一个秘密
I think in some ways, the reason I started the project, even though I didn't know it at the time, was because I was struggling with my own secrets.	我觉得,某些程度上,我发起这个项目的原因 尽管我在那时并不清楚 是因为我在为自己的一些小秘密而纠结
And it was through crowd-sourcing, it was through the kindness that strangers were showing me, that I could uncover parts of my past that were haunting me.	而通过把所有秘密集合起来 我看到了与我素不相识的人展现出来的善良 也正是这样 我才能把困扰自己已久的秘密公之于世
And has anyone ever discovered which secret was yours in the book?	琼·科恩:那有没有人发现 你书里面的某个秘密是你的呢
Has anyone in your life been able to tell?	有没有哪个人能够发现呢
Sometimes I share that information, yeah.	弗兰克·沃伦:我有的时候会告诉一些人哪些是我的秘密
I grew up in New York City, between Harlem and the Bronx.	我在纽约市长大， 介于哈莱姆区和布朗克斯区之间。
Growing up as a boy, we were taught that men had to be tough, had to be strong, had to be courageous, dominating -- no pain, no emotions, with the exception of anger -- and definitely no fear; that men are in charge, which means women are not; that men lead, and you should just follow and do what we say; that men are superior; women are inferior; that men are strong; women are weak; that women are of less value, property of men, and objects, particularly sexual objects.	从小男孩起，我们学到 男人应该意志坚强，身体强壮， 有勇气，有支配权-- 没有痛苦，没有感情， 除了愤怒之外-- 男人什么都不怕-- 男人全权负责，主管一切， 而女人不是； 男人是领导， 女人应该只是跟随和做男性吩咐的事； 男人带有优越性，女人是低人一等； 男人是强大的，女人弱小； 女人价值比较小-- 仅是男人的财富 和物品， 特别是性猎物。
I've later come to know that to be the collective socialization of men, better known as the "man box."	我后来了解到 这如上都是男人的集体社会化属性， 更好地称为 "男人束缚体"。
See this man box has in it all the ingredients of how we define what it means to be a man.	看看这"男人束缚体" 所有的成分 这就是我们怎样定义一个男人的。
Now I also want to say, without a doubt, there are some wonderful, wonderful, absolutely wonderful things about being a man.	此时我想说，毫无疑问， 男人身上也有很多美好的，不可思议的， 绝对棒的 品质。
But at the same time, there's some stuff that's just straight up twisted, and we really need to begin to challenge, look at it and really get in the process of deconstructing, redefining, what we come to know as manhood.	但同时， 有些东西 完全是扭曲了 我们真的需要开始 挑战，看看这些男性的特征 我们要进行 解构，重新定义， 我们重新认识什么才是男人气概。
This is my two at home, Kendall and Jay.	这是我家的两个孩子，肯德尔和杰伊。
They're 11 and 12.	他们现在是11岁和12岁。
Kendall's 15 months older than Jay.	肯德尔比杰伊大15个月。
There was a period of time when my wife -- her name is Tammie -- and I, we just got real busy and whip, bam, boom: Kendall and Jay.	有那么一段时期，我妻子塔蜜和我， 我们实在是忙得不可开交，用来照顾 肯德尔和杰伊。
And when they were about five and six, four and five, Jay could come to me, come to me crying.	当他们大约五岁和六岁， 或者四岁和五岁时， 杰伊可以来向我 哭哭啼啼。
It didn't matter what she was crying about, she could get on my knee, she could snot my sleeve up, just cry, cry it out.	当她哭泣，这没什么问题， 她可以坐在我膝上，她的鼻涕流到我的袖子上， 尽管哭，哭出来。
Daddy's got you. That's all that's important.	有爸爸在你身边爱护你是很重要的。
Now Kendall on the other hand -- and like I said, he's only 15 months older than her -- he'd come to me crying, it's like as soon as I would hear him cry, a clock would go off.	但换成是肯德尔-- 我说过，他比杰伊仅大15个月-- 他向我哭泣， 只要我听到他哭， 我的心理闹钟就上了发条
I would give the boy probably about 30 seconds, which means, by the time he got to me, I was already saying things like, "Why are you crying?	我会给肯德尔约30秒时间， 意味着，此时他得面对我， 我会说这样的话，"你为什么哭？
Hold your head up. Look at me.	抬起你的头，看着我。
Explain to me what's wrong.	说说你做错什么了。
Tell me what's wrong. I can't understand you.	告诉我你做错什么了。我实在不懂你。
Why are you crying?"	你哭什么？"
And out of my own frustration of my role and responsibility of building him up as a man to fit into these guidelines and these structures that are defining this man box, I would find myself saying things like, "Just go in your room.	我对没有 尽到自己的责任担当起 把他培养成男人的角色而感动沮丧 我还要适应这些原则 和这些男人束缚体的条条框框， 我觉得我会说出以下的话， "回到你房间去。
Just go on, go on in your room.	快回到你房间，
Sit down, get yourself together and come back and talk to me when you can talk to me like a --" what?	坐下来， 控制住你自己 然后回来和我谈话， 你要像个什么一样的人？"
Like a man.	（观众：男人。） "像个男人一样才能和我谈"。
And he's five years old.	肯德尔才5岁。
And as I grow in life, I would say to myself, "My God, what's wrong with me?	正如我在生活中的成长， 我会对自己说， "我的上帝，我怎么了？
What am I doing? Why would I do this?"	我到底做了什么？我怎么这样做？"
And I think back.	我回头想想。
I think back to my father.	我想到我的父亲。
There was a time in my life where we had a very troubled experience in our family.	我一生曾有 一段我们家族最难回首的往事。
My brother, Henry, he died tragically when we were teenagers.	我兄弟，亨利，他不幸去世， 当我们年少时。
We lived in New York City, as I said.	我们生活在纽约市，我说过。
We lived in the Bronx at the time, and the burial was in a place called Long Island, it was about two hours outside of the city.	那时我们住在布朗克斯区。 葬礼在长岛举行， 它在纽约市外有两个小时路程。
And as we were preparing to come back from the burial, the cars stopped at the bathroom to let folks take care of themselves before the long ride back to the city.	我们正要 从这葬礼返还回去， 汽车在洗手间停下来， 让人们去解手， 然后开始一段长途行程回去。
And the limousine empties out.	大轿车上空无一人。
My mother, my sister, my auntie, they all get out, but my father and I stayed in the limousine, and no sooner than the women got out, he burst out crying.	我母亲，我姐妹，我姑姑，他们都下了车， 只有我父亲和我留在大轿车上。 女人们刚下车， 我父亲就突然大哭。
He didn't want cry in front of me, but he knew he wasn't going to make it back to the city, and it was better me than to allow himself to express these feelings and emotions in front of the women.	他不想在我面前哭。 但他实在是忍不住了， 最好还是在我面前 而不是在女性面前去表达这些感情。
And this is a man who, 10 minutes ago, had just put his teenage son in the ground -- something I just can't even imagine.	我父亲，做为男人， 10分钟前， 刚刚下葬了他的孩子 入土-- 我真不敢想象当时发生的事。
The thing that sticks with me the most is that he was apologizing to me for crying in front of me, and at the same time, he was also giving me props, lifting me up, for not crying.	最让我触动的事 是他向我道歉 在我面前的哭泣。 同时，他也安慰我， 让我振作起来， 不要哭。
I come to also look at this as this fear that we have as men, this fear that just has us paralyzed, holding us hostage to this man box.	我回头看时才意识到 我们做为男人的这种畏惧， 让我们麻木的这种恐惧情绪， 使得我们成为 这个男人束缚体的人质。
I can remember speaking to a 12-year-old boy, a football player, and I asked him, I said, "How would you feel if, in front of all the players, your coach told you you were playing like a girl?"	我记得 与一个玩橄榄球的12岁男孩的交谈， 我问到： "你感觉怎样，假如 在所有队员前， 你教练说你玩起球来像个女孩？"
Now I expected him to say something like, I'd be sad; I'd be mad; I'd be angry, or something like that.	当时我期望他会说出类似的话， 我会悲伤，我要疯了，我很生气，等等。
No, the boy said to me -- the boy said to me, "It would destroy me."	不，男孩对我 说到： "这会毁了我。"
And I said to myself, "God, if it would destroy him to be called a girl, what are we then teaching him about girls?"	我又对自己说： "上帝啊，如果这句话会毁了一个男孩 当他被嘲笑为像个女孩时， 那么关于女孩的事，我们会教给 他点什么呢？"
It took me back to a time when I was about 12 years old.	回首往事， 当我约12岁时，
I grew up in tenement buildings in the inner city.	我在城内的贫民区长大。
At this time we're living in the Bronx, and in the building next to where I lived there was a guy named Johnny.	那时我们住在布朗克斯区。 在我住的那个街区，有个叫约翰的年轻人。
He was about 16 years old, and we were all about 12 years old -- younger guys.	他约16岁， 我们都是约12岁的男孩。
And he was hanging out with all us younger guys.	他和我们男孩混在一起。
And this guy, he was up to a lot of no good.	这个人品行不端。
He was the kind of kid who parents would have to wonder, "What is this 16-year-old boy doing with these 12-year-old boys?"	他是个让父母都诧异的那种孩子， "为什么16岁青年也和一群12岁孩子鬼混在一起？"
And he did spend a lot of time up to no good.	他做了很多坏事。
He was a troubled kid.	他也是个制造麻烦的青年。
His mother had died from a heroin overdose.	他母亲死于吸毒过量。
He was being raised by his grandmother.	然后他被奶奶养大。
His father wasn't on the set.	他父亲管不住他。
His grandmother had two jobs.	他奶奶有两个工作。
He was home alone a lot.	他经常独自一人在家。
But I've got to tell you, we young guys, we looked up to this dude, man.	但我要告诉你，在我们年轻人眼里， 我们看得起这个家伙。
He was cool. He was fine.	他很酷也很牛。
That's what the sisters said, "He was fine."	姑娘们都说："他很牛。"
He was having sex.	他有过性行为。
We all looked up to him.	我们都看得起他。
So one day, I'm out in front of the house doing something -- just playing around, doing something -- I don't know what.	有一天，我在屋前做一些事情-- 只是玩耍，做些游戏 - 我记不清了。
He looks out his window; he calls me upstairs; he said, "Hey Anthony."	他从窗口看到我，他叫我上楼，"嗨，安东尼"。
They called me Anthony growing up as a kid.	我孩童时，他们都叫我安东尼。
"Hey Anthony, come on upstairs."	"嗨，安东尼，上楼来"。
Johnny call, you go.	约翰吩咐的，我就去了。
So I run right upstairs.	我就直接跑到楼上。
As he opens the door, he says to me, "Do you want some?"	当门打开，他对我说："你想要点什么吗？"
Now I immediately knew what he meant.	我当时立马知道他的意图。
Because for me growing up at that time, and our relationship with this man box, "Do you want some?" meant one of two things: sex or drugs -- and we weren't doing drugs.	因为在那时我的出身背景， 和我们自身的男人束缚体的关系， "你想要点什么吗"就是指两种事， 性或者毒品-- 我们不吸毒。
Now my box, my card, my man box card, was immediately in jeopardy.	当时我自身的， 这种男人束缚体的表现 立即使我处于危险的境地中。
Two things: One, I never had sex.	两件事：一，我从来没有做过爱。
We don't talk about that as men.	做个男性，我们从来不会谈这些事。
You only tell your dearest, closest friend, sworn to secrecy for life, the first time you had sex.	你只会和你最亲爱的，最要好的朋友发誓要保守这秘密， 才谈起你的第一次性体验。
For everybody else, we go around like we've been having sex since we were two.	二，对于其他人来说，只要是两个人在一起，这就好比他们到哪儿都在做爱。
There ain't no first time.	这也不是什么新鲜事。
The other thing I couldn't tell him is that I didn't want any.	我没有告诉他的事是我啥都不想要。
That's even worse. We're supposed to always be on the prowl.	那会更糟糕。我们总是处于徘徊中。
Women are objects, especially sexual objects.	女人是对象， 特别是性猎物。
Anyway, so I couldn't tell him any of that.	至少，我没有告诉他实情。
So, like my mother would say, make a long story short, I just simply said to Johnny, "Yes."	所以，就像我妈常说，长话短说。 我就告诉约翰"好的"。
He told me to go in his room.	他就叫我去他屋。
I go in his room. On his bed is a girl from the neighborhood named Sheila.	我进了他屋。在床上，有个邻居女孩，谢拉。
She's 16 years old.	她16岁，
She's nude.	全裸。
She's what I know today to be mentally ill, higher-functioning at times than others.	我如今才知道她有精神病， 比起其它人，她有时不正常。
We had a whole choice of inappropriate names for her.	我们有数也数不清的外号用来嘲笑她。
Anyway, Johnny had just gotten through having sex with her.	尽管如此，约翰已经和她做过爱。
Well actually, he raped her, but he would say he had sex with her.	确切地说，他强奸了她，但他会说他与她在做爱。
Because, while Sheila never said no, she also never said yes.	因为，谢拉从不会说不， 也不会说是。
So he was offering me the opportunity to do the same.	所以他让我也好有机会做同样的事。
So when I go in the room, I close the door.	当我走进屋，我关上门。
Folks, I'm petrified.	观众们，当时我惊呆了。
I stand with my back to the door so Johnny can't bust in the room and see that I'm not doing anything, and I stand there long enough that I could have actually done something.	我后背靠着门站着以防约翰闯进屋， 看见我到底在做什么。 我站了很久，我本可以和谢拉做爱。
So now I'm no longer trying to figure out what I'm going to do; I'm trying to figure out how I'm going to get out of this room.	但当时我的确搞不清楚我要做什么， 我试图想从这间屋出去。
So in my 12 years of wisdom, I zip my pants down, I walk out into the room, and lo and behold to me, while I was in the room with Sheila, Johnny was back at the window calling guys up.	12岁的我很机灵， 我把裤裆拉下来， 然后我走出屋。 瞧瞧我， 我刚和谢拉在一起， 约翰在窗口招呼年轻人都上来。
So now there's a living room full of guys.	在客厅围满了人，
It was like the waiting room in the doctor's office.	就好像是在医生诊所的候诊室里一样。
And they asked me how was it, and I say to them, "It was good," and I zip my pants up in front of them, and I head for the door.	他们问我感受如何？ 我说："棒极了"。 然后我在他们面前把裤拉链拉上， 朝门口走去。
Now I say this all with remorse, and I was feeling a tremendous amount of remorse at that time, but I was conflicted, because, while I was feeling remorse, I was excited, because I didn't get caught.	现在我想说这件事让我追悔莫及， 当时我后悔地要死， 但是我又矛盾，因为尽管我后悔，但我还是很兴奋， 因为我没被露馅，
But I knew I felt bad about what was happening.	但我知道发生这种事太糟糕了。
This fear, getting outside the man box, totally enveloped me.	这种想要从男人束缚体中解脱出来的恐惧感 始终困扰着我。
It was way more important to me, about me and my man box card than about Sheila and what was happening to her.	我对我自身 这种男人束缚体的认识 比起发生在谢拉身上 的经历，对我来说它是更重要的。
See collectively, we as men are taught to have less value in women, to view them as property and the objects of men.	具体看来，我们做为男人 被灌输女人价值较小， 视她们为男人的财富和性猎物的象征。
We see that as an equation that equals violence against women.	我们把它看作一个等式，并且对女人实施暴力，动粗。
We as men, good men, the large majority of men, we operate on the foundation of this whole collective socialization.	我们做为男人，好男人， 男人中的多数， 我们在架构 整个集体社会的建立。
We kind of see ourselves separate, but we're very much a part of it.	我们自视我们彼此是分开的，但我们也是那其中的一体。
You see, we have to come to understand that less value, property and objectification is the foundation and the violence can't happen without it.	我们要理解 价值较小，象征财富和性猎物的女人也是社会中的一体， 并且停止暴力也离不开这种认同感。
So we're very much a part of the solution as well as the problem.	所以我们是这解决方案的一部分 就像这问题一样。
The center for disease control says that men's violence against women is at epidemic proportions, is the number one health concern for women in this country and abroad.	疾病预防控制中心说， 从流行病的程度看，男人对女人的暴力 是一件关注女人健康的头等事 无论在国内或是国外。
So quickly, I'd like to just say, this is the love of my life, my daughter Jay.	简言之，我想说， 我女儿杰伊是我生命中的全部爱。
The world I envision for her -- how do I want men to be acting and behaving?	我为她而设想的世界， 我想要男人怎样去做和做个好男人呢？
I need you on board. I need you with me.	我需要男人们和我在一起，协同一致。
I need you working with me and me working with you on how we raise our sons and teach them to be men -- that it's okay to not be dominating, that it's okay to have feelings and emotions, that it's okay to promote equality, that it's okay to have women who are just friends and that's it, that it's okay to be whole, that my liberation as a man is tied to your liberation as a woman.	我需要男人们和我一同努力 抚养我们的儿子 教育他们成为一个男人-- 男人不必像大男子一样主宰一切， 男人要有感情和感性化， 男人要促进男女平等， 男人视女人为朋友，就这么简单，而不是性猎物， 男人和女人同为一体， 我做为男人的自由 也赋予了你们做为女人的自由。
I remember asking a nine-year-old boy, I asked a nine-year-old boy, "What would life be like for you, if you didn't have to adhere to this man box?"	我记得问过一个九岁男孩。 我问他， "假如你从这个男性束缚中解脱出来， 生命对你意味着什么？"
He said to me, "I would be free."	他说："我将会自由"。
Thank you folks.	谢谢大家。
Ten years ago, on a Tuesday morning, I conducted a parachute jump at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.	十年前，周二的早上 我在北卡罗纳州的Fort Bragg讲述跳伞
It was a routine training jump, like many more I'd done since I became a paratrooper 27 years before.	这是一次例行的跳伞练习 像我以往做过的很多的培训一样 自从我成为专业的跳伞者后 27年之前
We went down to the airfield early because this is the Army and you always go early.	我们很早就来到飞机场 因为在军队 你需要很早出行
You do some routine refresher training, and then you go to put on your parachute and a buddy helps you.	你做了一些例行的恢复训练 接着你背上你的跳伞包 ,一个伙伴会帮你
And you put on the T-10 parachute.	你背上T10的跳伞包
And you're very careful how you put the straps, particularly the leg straps because they go between your legs.	你要很小心绑上安全皮带 尤其是腿的皮带 因为你需要绑在你两腿之间
And then you put on your reserve, and then you put on your heavy rucksack.	接着穿上你的后备装置，接着背上你很重的帆布包
And then a jumpmaster comes, and he's an experienced NCO in parachute operations.	接着跳伞专家也来了 他是在跳伞操作方面很有经验的NCO
He checks you out, he grabs your adjusting straps and he tightens everything so that your chest is crushed, your shoulders are crushed down, and, of course, he's tightened so your voice goes up a couple octaves as well.	他来跟你做检查，他拿着你调整安全皮带 接着他绑紧所有东西 所以你的胸部有些挤压感 你肩膀也被压住 当然，因为他绑得很紧 所以你的声音会提高几个八度
Then you sit down, and you wait a little while, because this is the Army.	接着你坐下来，等一段时间 因为这是军队里
Then you load the aircraft, and then you stand up and you get on, and you kind of lumber to the aircraft like this, in a line of people, and you sit down on canvas seats on either side of the aircraft.	接着要把你装到飞机里， 你站起来上飞机 你在飞机中好像木头一样,人们排成了一列 你坐在分列在飞机两旁的帆布座位上
And you wait a little bit longer, because this is the Air Force teaching the Army how to wait.	你要等候较长一段时间 因为空军会告诉军队如何去等待
Then you take off.	接着你就起飞了
And it's painful enough now -- and I think it's designed this way -- it's painful enough so you want to jump.	这已经足够痛苦了 我想就是这样设计的 这非常痛苦 你很想跳下去
You didn't really want to jump, but you want out.	你不是真的想跳下去 你只是想离开
So you get in the aircraft, you're flying along, and at 20 minutes out, these jumpmasters start giving you commands.	所以当你进入到飞机 你需要一直飞行 接着20分钟过后 这些跳伞专家就会给你命令
They give 20 minutes -- that's a time warning.	他们给你20分钟——这是时间的提醒
You sit there, OK.	你做在那里， 好的
Then they give you 10 minutes.	接着他们给你10分钟的提醒
And of course, you're responding with all of these.	当然， 你要对这些做出回答
And that's to boost everybody's confidence, to show that you're not scared.	这是为了建立每一个人的信心，告诉你不要害怕
Then they give you, "Get ready."	他们给你提示，"准备好了。"
Then they go, "Outboard personnel, stand up."	接着他们说，"外舱的人员，请站起来。"
If you're an outboard personnel, now you stand up.	如果你是外舱的人员，你就要站起来。
If you're an inboard personnel, stand up.	如果你是内舱的人员，站起来。
And then you hook up, and you hook up your static line.	你要用钩挂住，你钩在固定的拉线上。
And at that point, you think, "Hey, guess what?	在那一刻，你想："接下来会发生什么事情了？"
I'm probably going to jump.	我很可能准备跳下去。
There's no way to get out of this at this point."	但在这一刻你绝对不能这样就跳出去。"
You go through some additional checks, and then they open the door.	你需要做额外的一些检查，接着他们打开舱门。
And this was that Tuesday morning in September, and it was pretty nice outside.	这就是九月里那个周二的早上 外面都非常好
So nice air comes flowing in.	新鲜的空气吹进来
The jumpmasters start to check the door.	跳伞专家开始检查舱门
And then when it's time to go, a green light goes and the jumpmaster goes, "Go."	到了起跳的时候 会出现一道绿光 接着跳伞专家会喊，"开始。"
The first guy goes, and you're just in line, and you just kind of lumber to the door.	第一个人跳下去了，你只需排着队。 你就像木头一样靠在门边
Jump is a misnomer; you fall.	跳是一个不恰当的名字，确实来说你是掉下去
You fall outside the door, you're caught in the slipstream.	你从舱门掉下去 你被气流接住
The first thing you do is lock into a tight body position -- head down in your chest, your arms extended, put over your reserve parachute.	你第一个件事是锁定一个固定的身体姿势 你的胸部朝下，你的手臂展开 放在你预先准备的伞包
You do that because, 27 years before, an airborne sergeant had taught me to do that.	你做这样的事，是因为在27年前 一个空军警官让我这样做
I have no idea whether it makes any difference, but he seemed to make sense, and I wasn't going to test the hypothesis that he'd be wrong.	我并不知道这样是否会产生什么不同 但他却使得这个很有道理 我并不想做实验去证明他的假设是错的
And then you wait for the opening shock for your parachute to open.	接着你等待着开伞那一刻 那强劲的冲击
If you don't get an opening shock, you don't get a parachute -- you've got a whole new problem set.	如果你没有碰到这个冲击力，你可能没有带降落伞 或者你遇上了一连串新的问题
But typically you do; typically it opens.	但通常伞都会正常打开
And of course, if your leg straps aren't set right, at that point you get another little thrill.	当然，如果你的腿的皮带扣得不对 此时你又会又是一阵紧张
Boom.	很大一声
So then you look around, you're under a canopy and you say, "This is good."	接着你四处去看 你所属的长官会说："这不错。"
Now you prepare for the inevitable.	现在 你要为不可避免的事情做准备
You are going to hit the ground.	你现在准备撞到地上
You can't delay that much.	你不能耽误太多
And you really can't decide where you hit very much, because they pretend you can steer, but you're being delivered.	实际上你不能决定哪里你撞得最厉害 因为他们假想你可以驾控 但事实上你是被送到地上的
So you look around, where you're going to land, you try to make yourself ready.	你四处去看，哪里是你着陆的地方 你希望你自己能做好准备
And then as you get close, you lower your rucksack below you on a lowering line, so that it's not on you when you land, and you prepare to do a parachute-landing fall.	但当你越接近的时候，在下降的过程中你把你的背包置于你之下 所以当你着陆时 它并不在身上 你需要准备打开降落伞然后降落
Now the Army teaches you to do five points of performance -- the toes of your feet, your calves, your thighs, your buttocks and your push-up muscles.	接着部队会教你 五个部位的动作 你的脚趾头 你的小腿，你的大腿 你的屁股和你的支撑肌肉
It's this elegant little land, twist and roll.	这是一个优雅轻微的着陆，连翻代转
And that's not going to hurt.	者将不会造成伤害
In 30-some years of jumping, I never did one.	但在30年的跳伞经历中，我并没有成功作过
I always landed like a watermelon out of a third floor window.	我总是像在3楼扔下的西瓜一样降落
And as soon as I hit, the first thing I did is I'd see if I'd broken anything that I needed.	只要我着地 第一件事我会做的是看看我是否打烂了我的必需品
I'd shake my head, and I'd ask myself the eternal question: "Why didn't I go into banking?"	我会晃脑袋 问自己一个恒久的问题： "为什么我没有进入到银行业？"
And I'd look around, and then I'd see another paratrooper, a young guy or girl, and they'd have pulled out their M4 carbine and they'd be picking up their equipment.	我爱四处去看 我喜欢看其他跳伞人员 年轻男女 他们需要拿出他们M-4的卡宾枪 接着他们需要拿走他们的设备
They'd be doing everything that we had taught them.	他们需要做所有的事情 我们教授他们的
And I realized that, if they had to go into combat, they would do what we had taught them and they would follow leaders.	我意识到 如果他们需要战斗 他们会作我们所有教他们的 他们会服从领导的安排
And I realized that, if they came out of combat, it would be because we led them well.	我发现到，如果他们结束战争之后， 会是怎样，因为我们领导得很好
And I was hooked again on the importance of what I did.	我再次被我做的事情的重要性迷住了
So now I do that Tuesday morning jump, but it's not any jump -- that was September 11th, 2001.	所以在周二早上我跳的那一次 但这不是任何一次跳伞—— 是在2001年九月11日
And when we took off from the airfield, America was at peace.	当我们从机场起飞，美国当时还一片平静
When we landed on the drop-zone, everything had changed.	当我在预定着陆区域着陆，所有东西都改变了
And what we thought about the possibility of those young soldiers going into combat as being theoretical was now very, very real -- and leadership seemed important.	我们所想到的是 很多年轻士兵进入到战争的可能性 从理论上说 这是非常非常真实的 领导力显得很重要
But things had changed; I was a 46-year-old brigadier general.	但是很多东西改变了 我是46岁准将
I'd been successful, but things changed so much that I was going to have to make some significant changes, and on that morning, I didn't know it.	我曾经取得成功 但很多事情已经改变 我需要做出一些显著的改变 在那一个早上，我并不知道
I was raised with traditional stories of leadership: Robert E. Lee, John Buford at Gettysburg.	我在很多传统的关于领导力的故事所熏陶下成长 Robert E.Lee, John Buford在葛斯底堡
And I also was raised with personal examples of leadership.	我同样受到了 一些关于个人领导力的例子的熏陶
This was my father in Vietnam.	这是我的父亲在越南
And I was raised to believe that soldiers were strong and wise and brave and faithful; they didn't lie, cheat, steal or abandon their comrades.	我从小的培养就相信 士兵是强壮和智慧的 是勇敢和忠诚的 他们不会说谎，欺骗和偷盗 或者被战友所遗弃
And I still believe real leaders are like that.	而我一直相信领导者就是这样的
But in my first 25 years of career, I had a bunch of different experiences.	但在我职业生涯头25个年头中 我获得了很多不同的经历
One of my first battalion commanders, I worked in his battalion for 18 months and the only conversation he ever had with Lt. McChrystal was at mile 18 of a 25-mile road march, and he chewed my ass for about 40 seconds.	我第一个战事中的一个指挥官 我在他的营部工作了18个月 他唯一和McChrystal中将的谈话 是在25英里的行军中走到18英里的时候 他严厉斥责我大约40秒
And I'm not sure that was real interaction.	我不肯定这是否一个真正意义上的互动
But then a couple of years later, when I was a company commander, I went out to the National Training Center.	但几年过去以后，当我是一个连队的指挥官时 我去了全国训练中心
And we did an operation, and my company did a dawn attack -- you know, the classic dawn attack: you prepare all night, move to the line of departure.	我们布置了一个行动 我的连队做了一个黎明攻击 你知道，经典的黎明攻击 你需要整晚准备，来到了出发的地方
And I had an armored organization at that point.	当时我拥有一个有装甲的团队
We move forward, and we get wiped out -- I mean, wiped out immediately.	我们按计划行动， 我们被全歼了 我是说立刻被全歼了
The enemy didn't break a sweat doing it.	敌人没花摧毁之力
And after the battle, they bring this mobile theater and they do what they call an "after action review" to teach you what you've done wrong.	在那次行动之后， 他们带来了移动的电影院 做了"行动后的回顾" 教你那些地方做错了
Sort of leadership by humiliation.	所谓的屈辱教育
They put a big screen up, and they take you through everything: "and then you didn't do this, and you didn't do this, etc."	他们带来一个大屏幕，让你重温一切 "...你没有做这个，你也没有做这个，等等。"
I walked out feeling as low as a snake's belly in a wagon rut.	我走出来后感觉 自己非常愚蠢
And I saw my battalion commander, because I had let him down.	而我看到我这个营部的指挥员，因为我让他失望了
And I went up to apologize to him, and he said, "Stanley, I thought you did great."	我走上去跟他道歉 他说："Stanley，我觉得你做得很好。"
And in one sentence, he lifted me, put me back on my feet, and taught me that leaders can let you fail and yet not let you be a failure.	这一句话， 他的支持让我重新振作 教会好领导者会让你尝试失败 但不会让你变成败者。
When 9/11 came, 46-year-old Brig. Gen. McChrystal sees a whole new world.	当911来临的时候， 46岁的Brig.Gen.McChrystal看到一个全新的世界。
First, the things that are obvious, that you're familiar with: the environment changed -- the speed, the scrutiny, the sensitivity of everything now is so fast, sometimes it evolves faster than people have time to really reflect on it.	首先，这些是很明显的，你熟悉的： 环境改变了-- 速度，审议 对所有事物的感触都很快 有时变化得更加快 没有时间给人们作出反应
But everything we do is in a different context.	但所有我们做的事情 都是在不同的情况下
More importantly, the force that I led was spread over more than 20 countries.	更加重要的是，我领导的军队 已经遍布了20多个国家
And instead of being able to get all the key leaders for a decision together in a single room and look them in the eye and build their confidence and get trust from them, I'm now leading a force that's dispersed, and I've got to use other techniques.	代替将所有的主要领导人 为了一个决定集中在一个房间里面 直视他们，建立他们信心， 从他们那里得到信任， 现在我领带一支分散的军队 我需要使用其他技术。
I've got to use video teleconferences, I've got to use chat, I've got to use email, I've got to use phone calls -- I've got to use everything I can, not just for communication, but for leadership.	我需要用视频会议，我需要使用聊天工具， 我需要用电邮，我需要用电话—— 我要用上所有我能用上的东西 但这不仅仅是为了交流沟通 这是为了领导。
A 22-year-old individual operating alone, thousands of miles from me, has got to communicate to me with confidence.	一个22岁的人 一个人独立行动 他离我数千里远 需要有信心与我交流。
I have to have trust in them and vice versa.	我需要相信他们，反之亦然
And I also have to build their faith.	我需要建立他们的信心
And that's a new kind of leadership for me.	这是新型的领导能力 对于我来说
We had one operation where we had to coordinate it from multiple locations.	我们需要有一个运作系统 我需要把多个地方联系起来
An emerging opportunity came -- didn't have time to get everybody together.	一个紧急机会来了—— 没有时间让所有人集中在一起
So we had to get complex intelligence together, we had to line up the ability to act.	但我们需要集中智慧 我们必须合力去采取行动。
It was sensitive, we had to go up the chain of command, convince them that this was the right thing to do and do all of this on electronic medium.	这是很敏感的，我们必须一路向上汇报 说服他们这是我们应该做的事情 完成这些东西 在电子的媒介上
We failed.	我们失败了。
The mission didn't work.	这个任务没有能完成。
And so now what we had to do is I had to reach out to try to rebuild the trust of that force, rebuild their confidence -- me and them, and them and me, and our seniors and us as a force -- all without the ability to put a hand on a shoulder.	所以我们现在需要做的 我必须达到 能重建军队的信任 重建他们的信心 我跟他们和他们跟我 还有我们的上级和作为整个军队的我们 所有的事情都不能单靠个人的力量
Entirely new requirement.	全新的要求
Also, the people had changed.	当然人们也改变了
You probably think that the force that I led was all steely-eyed commandos with big knuckle fists carrying exotic weapons.	你可能会想我带领的军队 他们都是由钢铁般的眼神和巨大指节拳头的突击队员 他们都带着奇异的武器
In reality, much of the force I led looked exactly like you.	事实上 大部分我带领的军队 看来都跟你们一样
It was men, women, young, old -- not just from military; from different organizations, many of them detailed to us just from a handshake.	他们是男人，女人，年轻，年老的—— 并不是只来自于狭义上的军队,而是来自不同的组织 他们很多人的信息都是来自一次握手的相遇
And so instead of giving orders, you're now building consensus and you're building a sense of shared purpose.	不同于以往给出命令， 你现在需要建立一致性 你要建立一种以分享为目的的意识
Probably the biggest change was understanding that the generational difference, the ages, had changed so much.	或者说最大的改变 那是对于不同年代不同观念的理解 时代改变了太多
I went down to be with a Ranger platoon on an operation in Afghanistan, and on that operation, a sergeant in the platoon had lost about half his arm throwing a Taliban hand grenade back at the enemy after it had landed in his fire team.	我下去跟突击部队的一个排 参与了在阿富汗的一个行动 在那一次行动中 在这个排中一个警官 损失了半个手臂 他把塔利班扔到攻击部队里的 一个手榴弹 扔回了敌人阵营
We talked about the operation, and then at the end I did what I often do with a force like that.	我们讲述了这次行动 在最后我做了以往我跟军队做的事，就好像这样，
I asked, "Where were you on 9/11?"	我说，"在911的时候你们在哪里？"
And one young Ranger in the back -- his hair's tousled and his face is red and windblown from being in combat in the cold Afghan wind -- he said, "Sir, I was in the sixth grade."	一个年轻的军士在后面 他的头发打卷脸色通红 那都是在阿富汗战斗中让寒风吹的 他说"长官,我在读六年级."
And it reminded me that we're operating a force that must have shared purpose and shared consciousness, and yet he has different experiences, in many cases a different vocabulary, a completely different skill set in terms of digital media than I do and many of the other senior leaders.	这提醒我 我们需要这样运行一支军队 他们必须分享目的 分享意识 然而他有不同的经验 在很多例子中 这是不同的词汇 完全不同的一套技能 用数码的媒体 取代了我和其他高级领导者的做法
And yet, we need to have that shared sense.	我们现在需要一个有共享的意识
It also produced something which I call an inversion of expertise, because we had so many changes at the lower levels in technology and tactics and whatnot, that suddenly the things that we grew up doing wasn't what the force was doing anymore.	它能制造一些东西 我叫做倒置的专业技术 因为我们在较低层次作了很多的改变 在技术、战术诸如此类的东西 突然之间我们在成长过程 中学会要做的事情 现在部队已经不再做了
So how does a leader stay credible and legitimate when they haven't done what the people you're leading are doing?	作为一个领导者 如何能保持合理性和信服力 当他们在领导他人 做那些他们自己也没有做过的事情的时候
And it's a brand new leadership challenge.	这是领导层遇到的崭新挑战
And it forced me to become a lot more transparent, a lot more willing to listen, a lot more willing to be reverse-mentored from lower.	它迫使我将很多事情变得透明 要更乐意去聆听 更乐意收到下层的反过来的指导
And yet, again, you're not all in one room.	而且，你们并不在一个屋子里
Then another thing.	这是另外一面
There's an effect on you and on your leaders.	会影响你和你们这些领导者
There's an impact, it's cumulative.	这是有影响的，而且是累积的
You don't reset, or recharge your battery every time.	你不能重置，或者重新充电，你需要每时每刻充电
I stood in front of a screen one night in Iraq with one of my senior officers and we watched a firefight from one of our forces.	有一天晚上，我在伊朗站在一块屏幕前 和一个比我高级的官员 我们看到我们一支武装力量进行火力搏斗
And I remembered his son was in our force.	我记得他的儿子在我们的部队中
And I said, "John, where's your son? And how is he?"	我说："John,你的儿子在哪里？现在怎么样？"
And he said, "Sir, he's fine. Thanks for asking."	他说，"他很好，多谢问候。"
I said, "Where is he now?"	我说，"他在哪里？"
And he pointed at the screen, he said, "He's in that firefight."	他指着屏幕，说，"他就在这场火力搏斗中。"
Think about watching your brother, father, daughter, son, wife in a firefight in real time and you can't do anything about it.	试想看着你的兄弟，父亲， 女儿，儿子，妻子 正在这场火力搏斗中 你却不能帮他做任何事情
Think about knowing that over time.	想象一下随着时间的推移
And it's a new cumulative pressure on leaders.	这种累积的压力沉沉压在领导者的身上
And you have to watch and take care of each other.	但你必须照看和互相照顾。
I probably learned the most about relationships.	在怎样处理人的关系上我学到了很多
I learned they are the sinew which hold the force together.	我学习到他们是支柱 他们让部队连在一起
I grew up much of my career in the Ranger regiment.	我的大部门职业生涯是在突击团队中成长的
And every morning in the Ranger regiment, every Ranger -- and there are more than 2,000 of them -- says a six-stanza Ranger creed.	每一个早上 在这个团队中 每一个军士， 两千个多个人 诵读六段部队的信条
You may know one line of it, it says, "I'll never leave a fallen comrade to fall into the hands of the enemy."	你可能知道其中的一条，它是这样说的， "我绝对不会留下任何一个落后的队友在敌人的手中。"
And it's not a mindless mantra, and it's not a poem.	这不是一个愚蠢的咒语 也不是一首诗
It's a promise.	这是一个承诺
Every Ranger promises every other Ranger, "No matter what happens, no matter what it costs me, if you need me, I'm coming."	每一个军士都会向其他每一个军士作出承诺 无论什么事情发生，无论对于自己付出什么代价 如果你需要我，我就会来。
And every Ranger gets that same promise from every other Ranger.	每一个军士都获得这样的承诺 从其他军士身上
Think about it. It's extraordinarily powerful.	想象一下。这是绝对的有力量
It's probably more powerful than marriage vows.	这甚至比结婚的誓言更加有力量
And they've lived up to it, which gives it special power.	他们为此而生存,并且给出了特别的力量
And so the organizational relationship that bonds them is just amazing.	所以有组织的关系把他们联系起来 这是太棒了
And I learned personal relationships were more important than ever.	我学习人际间的关系 现在比以往都重要
We were in a difficult operation in Afghanistan in 2007, and an old friend of mine, that I had spent many years at various points of my career with -- godfather to one of their kids -- he sent me a note, just in an envelope, that had a quote from Sherman to Grant that said, "I knew if I ever got in a tight spot, that you would come, if alive."	2007年我们在阿富汗的行动非常艰难 我的一个老朋友 我们交往了多年 在我职业生涯多个重要的点上 我还是他一个孩子的教父 他给我寄了张纸条,就放在一个信封里 是Sherman和Grant书信里的摘录 说，"我知道如果我困住了， 你是会来的，如果你还活着。"
And having that kind of relationship, for me, turned out to be critical at many points in my career.	能有这样的关系 对于我而言 在职业生涯的很多时候都至关重要
And I learned that you have to give that in this environment, because it's tough.	我学习到你必须付出 在这样的环境里， 因为这很艰难
That was my journey.	那是我的旅程
I hope it's not over.	我希望它还没有结束
I came to believe that a leader isn't good because they're right; they're good because they're willing to learn and to trust.	我开始相信 一个领导并不是因为他正确了就是好的 他们是好的，因为他们愿意学习和去信任别人
This isn't easy stuff.	这不是简单的事情
It's not like that electronic abs machine where, 15 minutes a month, you get washboard abs.	这不是一个电子瘦肚机 那里，一个月15分钟，帮你把肚子搓一下
And it isn't always fair.	这总不是那么的公平
You can get knocked down, and it hurts and it leaves scars.	你可能被击败 它会痛 留下伤疤
But if you're a leader, the people you've counted on will help you up.	但如果你是一个领导者 那些人你依赖的人 会帮你成长
And if you're a leader, the people who count on you need you on your feet.	如果你是一个领导者 而那些信任你的人需要你立场坚定
Thank you.	谢谢
	（鼓掌）
So I tried to do a small good thing for my wife.	我打算为我妻子做点小事
It makes me to stand here, the fame, the money I got out of it.	而那件事使我站在这里 那件事也使我取得了荣誉和财富
So what I did, I'd gone back to my early marriage days.	这个故事要从我刚结婚的时候说起
What you did in the early marriage days, you tried to impress your wife. I did the same.	你刚结婚时候都干些什么？ 要想给妻子留个好印象，对吧，我也是一样。
On that occasion, I found my wife carrying something like this.	偶然，我发现我妻子 这样子拿着一样东西
I saw. "What is that?" I asked.	我问："那是什么呀？"
My wife replied, "None of your business."	我妻子回答："不关你的事。"
Then, being her husband, I ran behind her and saw she had a nasty rag cloth.	但是，我是她丈夫呀，我悄悄跟着她 看见她好像有块脏抹布
I don't even use that cloth to clean my two-wheeler.	脏得我甚至不想用它来擦屁股
Then I understood this -- adapting that unhygienic method to manage her period days.	我很快明白了她拿着这个不卫生的东西的原因 她来月经了
Then I immediately asked her, why are you [using] that unhygienic method?	我当时就问她，你怎么用这种不卫生的东西？
She replied, I also know about [sanitary pads], but myself and my sisters, if they start using that, we have to cut our family milk budget.	她回答说，我也知道有卫生巾 但我和姐妹们如果用卫生巾的话 我们就没有那么多钱买牛奶了
Then I was shocked. What is the connection between using a sanitary pad and a milk budget?	我被她的话震惊了 用卫生巾和买牛奶有什么联系？
And it's called affordability.	通常人们称之为：经济负担能力
I tried to impress my new wife by offering her a packet of sanitary pads.	于是我打算给我的新婚妻子买了一大盒卫生巾来博取她对我的好印象
I went to a local shop, I tried to buy her a sanitary pad packet.	我走进一家小店买了一盒卫生巾
That fellow looks left and right, and spreads a newspaper, rolls it into the newspaper, gives it to me like a banned item, something like that.	卖东西的伙计左右看看 铺开一张报纸，裹着它 递给我，像是在做贼一样
I don't know why. I did not ask for a condom.	我想：他在干嘛呢？我又不是要买避孕套
Then I took that pad. I want to see that. What is inside it?	然后我就打量着那个盒子，我想看看里面有什么
The very first time, at the age of 29, that day I am touching the sanitary pad, first ever.	那时候我29岁 第一次接触到卫生巾
I must know: How many of the guys here have touched a sanitary pad?	我很想知道，在座有多少男士碰过卫生巾？
They are not going to touch that, because it's not your matter.	这不管我们男士的事？对吗？
Then I thought to myself, white substance, made of cotton -- oh my God, that guy is just using a penny value of raw material -- inside they are selling for pounds, dollars.	我琢磨开了，白色的，不就是棉花吗 天哪，成本才几分钱而已 他们竟然卖好几美元
Why not make a local sanitary pad for my new wife?	我为什么不为我的新妻子做一点卫生巾呢？
That's how all this started, but after making a sanitary pad, where can I check it?	这就是故事的起因。可是做好之后 我到哪儿去检验一下呢？
It's not like I can just check it in the lab.	实验室好像不干这个
I need a woman volunteer. Where can I get one in India?	我需要一个女性志愿者，可是在印度
Even in Bangalore you won't get [one], in India.	甚至在班加罗尔，没有
So only problem: the only available victim is my wife.	所以唯一的受害者就只能是我妻子了
Then I made a sanitary pad and handed it to Shanti -- my wife's name is Shanti.	我拿着做好的卫生巾对 Shanti 说，对了，她的名字
"Close your eyes. Whatever I give, it will be not a diamond pendant not a diamond ring, even a chocolate, I will give you a surprise with a lot of tinsel paper rolled up with it.	"闭上眼，猜猜是什么 很可惜不是个钻石项链 也不是钻石戒指，甚至不是巧克力 这个东西是用纸做的
Close your eyes."	请闭上眼睛吧"
Because I tried to make it intimate.	我想要把事情搞得亲密一些
Because it's an arranged marriage, not a love marriage.	因为这是父母安排的婚姻，不是恋爱婚姻
So one day she said, openly, I'm not going to support this research.	终于有一天，她坦白的告诉我，她不再支持我的研究了
Then other victims, they got into my sisters.	后来也就来了别的牺牲者，我的姐妹
But even sisters, wives, they're not ready to support in the research.	即使是姐妹和妻子，她们也不支持我
That's why I am always jealous with the saints in India.	这就是我为什么妒忌印度的圣人
They are having a lot of women volunteers around them.	他们总是有那么多女性志愿者围着他们
Why I am not getting [any]?	为什么我就没有？
You know, without them even calling, they'll get a lot of women volunteers.	你知道，那些圣人不用开口，就有许多女性志愿者过来了
Then I used, tried to use the medical college girls.	我去找那些医学院的女孩
They also refused. Finally, I decide, use sanitary pad myself.	她们也拒绝了我。最终，我决定 我自己用
Now I am having a title like the first man to set foot on the moon.	我感觉我真像那个 第一次在月球上留下脚印的 Armstrong
Armstrong. Then Tenzing [and] Hillary, in Everest, like that Muruganantham is the first man wore a sanitary pad across the globe.	或者是登上珠穆朗玛峰的 Tenzing 和 Hillary 我，Muruganantham 是全世界第一个 穿着卫生巾的男人
I wore a sanitary pad. I filled animal blood in a football bottle, I tied it up here, there is a tube going into my panties, while I'm walking, while I'm cycling, I made a press, doses of blood will go there.	我穿着卫生巾，还弄些动物血在瓶子里 我把瓶子绑在这儿，再插一根管子通到我的内裤里 当我走路骑车的时候，我按一下那个瓶子 血就会流到"那儿"
That makes me bow down to any woman in front of me to give full respect. That five days I'll never forget -- the messy days, the lousy days, that wetness.	这件事让我对女人非常敬佩 那五天的实验我一辈子也忘不掉 五个混乱，肮脏，潮湿的日子
My God, it's unbelievable.	天哪，真是难以置信
But here the problem is, one company is making napkin out of cotton. It is working well.	问题是，工厂可以用棉花 做出很好的餐巾纸
But I am also trying to make sanitary pad with the good cotton. It's not working.	我同样用好棉花，就做不出好用的卫生巾
That makes me to want to refuse to continue this research and research and research.	这让我很沮丧，甚至不再想继续试验
You need first funds.	而且实验也是需要资金的
Not only financial crises, but because of the sanitary pad research, I come through all sorts of problems, including a divorce notice from my wife.	还并不只是资金 这些研究还给我带来了一系列的麻烦, 比如： 一封来自妻子的离婚申请书
Why is this? I used medical college girls.	为什么？就因为那些医学院的女孩
She suspects I am using as a trump card to run behind medical college girls.	她怀疑我做实验只是个借口 从而可以去追那些女孩
Finally, I came to know it is a special cellulose derived from a pinewood, but even after that, you need a multimillion-dollar plant like this to process that material. Again, a stop-up.	最终，我终于了解到了一种特别的纤维素 从松树中获得，但即使这样 照样也需要价值上百万的机器 来处理这些原料。所以，工作又停顿下来
Then I spend another four years to create my own machine tools, a simple machine tool like this.	接着，我又用了四年时间开发我自己的机器 一个简单的机器，看起来像这样
In this machine, any rural woman can apply the same raw materials that they are processing in the multinational plant, anyone can make a world-class napkin at your dining hall.	这个机器使得任何乡下的妇女都能处理原材料 和那些跨国公司处理的过程一样 卫生巾人人都可以在餐厅里就做出来，还是世界级的
That is my invention.	这就是我的发明
So after that, what I did, usually if anyone got a patent or an invention, immediately you want to make, convert into this.	发明这台机器之后，我干了什么呢 通常如果有人得到了个专利或者发明了一样东西 他想做的第一件事就是把它变成这个
I never did this. I dropped it just like this, because you do this, if anyone runs after money, their life will not [have] any beauty. It is boredom.	我没有这么做，我就这样放下了 因为我想，任何只追逐金钱的人 生命并不会快乐，只会空虚。
A lot of people making a lot of money, billion, billions of dollars accumulating.	很多赚大钱的人 积累了几十亿
Why are they coming for, finally, for philanthropy?	最后都干什么去了呢？做慈善了
Why the need for accumulating money, then doing philanthropy?	那为什么要有钱了再去做慈善呢？
What if one decided to start philanthropy from the day one?	从现在就开始呗
That's why I am giving this machine only in rural India, for rural women, because in India, [you'll be] surprised, only two percent of women are using sanitary pads. The rest, they're using a rag cloth, a leaf, husk, [saw] dust, everything except sanitary pads.	所以我把这台机器送给 所有印度乡下的女性，因为在印度 只有百分之二的女性买得起卫生巾 其余的，都用脏布 甚至是树叶，泥土，就是没有卫生巾
It is the same in the 21st century. That's why I am going to decide to give this machine only for poor women across India.	同样是21世纪。我决定 无偿把机器贡献给贫穷的印度农村
So far, 630 installations happened in 23 states in six other countries.	至今，已经有630套这样的设备安置在 不同国家的不同地方
Now I'm on my seventh year sustaining against multinational, transnational giants -- makes all MBA students a question mark.	现在，已经是我和那些商业巨头们较量 的第七个年头——这让所有的MBA学生纳闷
A school dropout from Coimbatore, how he is able to sustaining?	一个从 Coimbatore 辍学的家伙，怎么能干这么久？
That makes me a visiting professor and guest lecturer in all IIMs.	因此他们邀请我去所有的印度管理学院做演讲
Play video one.	播一段视频
Arunachalam Muruganantham: The thing I saw in my wife's hand, "Why are you using that nasty cloth?"	Arunachalam Muruganantham： 我问我妻子："你怎么能用那么脏的布头？"
She replied immediately, "I know about napkins, but if I start using napkins, then we have to cut our family milk budget."	她立刻回答："如果我用卫生巾 我们就不得不少喝牛奶"
Why not make myself a low-cost napkin?	为什么不为自己做一种低成本的卫生巾呢？
So I decided I'm going to sell this new machine only for Women Self Help Groups.	因此我决定把这种机器卖给（您不是说好了要送的吗？） 自助小组（贫困地区的人们组成的，互相帮助的小团体）
That is my idea.	这是我的主意
AM: And previously, you need a multimillion investment for machine and all. Now, any rural woman can.	以前，你需要几百万投资 去买设备。现在，任何乡下的妇女都可以
They are performing puja.	这个视频是她们在礼拜
: You just think, competing giants, even from Harvard, Oxford, is difficult.	（演唱） 你想一下，要和商业巨头对抗 就算你是哈佛，牛津来的也很困难
I make a rural woman to compete with multinationals.	但我让一个乡下女人能够对抗跨国公司
I'm sustaining on seventh year.	而且坚持了七年
Already 600 installations. What is my mission?	已经600套了。我接下来的任务是什么？
I'm going to make India [into] a 100-percent-sanitary-napkin-using country in my lifetime.	我要让印度的女性，在我的有生之年 全部用上卫生巾
In this way I'm going to provide not less than a million rural employment that I'm going to create.	还有，我要在印度农村提供 不少于100万个就业机会，靠这台机器
That's why I'm not running after this bloody money.	这就是为什么我不急于追求血钱
I'm doing something serious.	我要做些大事
If you chase a girl, the girl won't like you.	如果你只是去追女孩，女孩不一定喜欢你
Do your job simply, the girl will chase you.	如果你埋头干你的事，女孩会主动来追你
Like that, I never chased Mahalakshmi.	真的，我从来没追过 Mahalakshmi.
Mahalakshmi is chasing me, I am keeping in the back pocket.	是 Mahalakshmi （第二个老婆？）追的我
Not in front pocket. I'm a back pocket man.	我没上心，我无所谓
That's all. A school dropout saw your problem in the society of not using sanitary pad.	就这样，我从一个不用卫生巾的社会里 看到了问题
I am becoming a solution provider. I'm very happy.	我提供了解决方案，我非常快乐
I don't want to make this as a corporate entity.	我不想去办什么大企业
I want to make this as a local sanitary pad movement across the globe. That's why I put all the details on public domain like an open software.	我就想让那些当地用不起卫生巾的女性们用上卫生巾 全球也一样。这就是为什么我公开全部资料 就像一个公共开放的软件
Now 110 countries are accessing it. Okay?	现在有110个国家开始引进它了，很好？
So I classify the people into three: uneducated, little educated, surplus educated.	我把人们分成三种情况 没受过教育，受过少许教育和受过很好教育
Little educated, done this. Surplus educated, what are you going to do for the society?	受过少许教育的人，做了这个 而受高等教育的人，你们都为社会做了些什么呢？
Thank you very much. Bye!	非常感谢，再见！
	（鼓掌）
There is nothing bigger or older than the universe.	没什么比宇宙更广大更久远的了。
The questions I would like to talk about are: one, where did we come from?	您们的问题中我想聊一下的是: 您我何从?
How did the universe come into being?	宇宙何来?
Are we alone in the universe?	宇宙中就只有我们?
Is there alien life out there?	有外星异生物么?
What is the future of the human race?	人类的未来将会如何?
Up until the 1920s, everyone thought the universe was essentially static and unchanging in time.	上世纪20年代之前, 所有人都以为宇宙基本上是处于稳态, 流金岁月, 持恒不变.
Then it was discovered that the universe was expanding.	之后我们发现原来宇宙正在膨胀中.
Distant galaxies were moving away from us.	辽远星系一直飞离我们.
This meant they must have been closer together in the past.	这意味着它们必定曾相靠近.
If we extrapolate back, we find we must have all been on top of each other about 15 billion years ago.	我们若往后推算, 就会发现我们必都曾於约150亿年前 互相堆叠在一起.
This was the Big Bang, the beginning of the universe.	正是这 "霹雳大爆炸" - 宇宙之起始.
But was there anything before the Big Bang?	然而大爆炸前可有什么吗?
If not, what created the universe?	若是没有, 又是什么创造宇宙呢?
Why did the universe emerge from the Big Bang the way it did?	宇宙缘何要从大霹雳中冒出呢?
We used to think that the theory of the universe could be divided into two parts.	过往我们都认为宇宙论 可分成两部分.
First, there were the laws like Maxwell's equations and general relativity that determined the evolution of the universe, given its state over all of space at one time.	首先, 是定律 像'麦克斯韦方程组' 和 '广义相对论' 以其于同一刻设定整个时空之状态, 而决定了宇宙之演化进程.
And second, there was no question of the initial state of the universe.	次之，是对宇宙雏形 的疑问.
We have made good progress on the first part, and now have the knowledge of the laws of evolution in all but the most extreme conditions.	第一部分我们取得良好进展, 除了 '至极端境况' 以外. 现在已对 演化规律于所有境况下之进程有所掌握.
But until recently, we have had little idea about the initial conditions for the universe.	可直至最近, 我们仍对宇宙初生当时之 周围条件不甚了了.
However, this division into laws of evolution and initial conditions depends on time and space being separate and distinct.	然而, 这演化律 及 初始条件 之界分 乃囿於"时.空分明"之概念内.
Under extreme conditions, general relativity and quantum theory allow time to behave like another dimension of space.	而於极端条件下, 广义相对论及量子论 容许"时间"如同"空间"的另一维度般运作.
This removes the distinction between time and space, and means the laws of evolution can also determine the initial state.	这就将 '时.空'之间区别移除了 即是说 演化律 亦可决定初始状态.
The universe can spontaneously create itself out of nothing.	宇宙可以由无变有 自我创生!
Moreover, we can calculate a probability that the universe was created in different states.	我们甚至可以计算出 宇宙在不同情况下诞生的可能性。
These predictions are in excellent agreement with observations by the WMAP satellite of the cosmic microwave background, which is an imprint of the very early universe.	这些推论与 WMAP卫星 所观测到的宇宙微波背景辐射 相当一致.
We think we have solved the mystery of creation.	我们相信已勘破了创造奥秘
Maybe we should patent the universe and charge everyone royalties for their existence.	或许我们应将 '宇宙' 给注册 然后向每个生存於世的人收 '生活费'.
I now turn to the second big question: are we alone, or is there other life in the universe?	现在我转到第二个 大问题 去 宇宙中就只有我们, 还是另有其它生物?
We believe that life arose spontaneously on the Earth, so it must be possible for life to appear on other suitable planets, of which there seem to be a large number in the galaxy.	我们相信生命从地球自我衍生, 故此生命确有可能出现於其它合适星球 - 星河中看来可有不少呢.
But we don't know how life first appeared.	但我们仍未搅通生命是如何生成:
We have two pieces of observational evidence on the probability of life appearing.	对於生命诞生的可能契机 我们有两项观测得来的佐证.
The first is that we have fossils of algae from 3.5 billion years ago.	首先我们有来自35亿年前 的海藻化石.
The Earth was formed 4.6 billion years ago and was probably too hot for about the first half billion years.	地球於46亿年前形成 头约5亿年相信仍太热了.
So life appeared on Earth within half a billion years of it being possible, which is short compared to the 10-billion-year lifetime of a planet of Earth type.	故此生命於 其变得可能后的5亿年间方出现, 这相对於像地球之类百亿年期的星体 只算是一段短时间.
This suggests that a probability of life appearing is reasonably high.	这意味着生命出现的概率是颇高的.
If it was very low, one would have expected it to take most of the ten billion years available.	若是低的话, 就可预期要花尽 百亿年的绝大部分才会出现.
On the other hand, we don't seem to have been visited by aliens.	另一方面, 我们似乎从未见有外星人到访.
I am discounting the reports of UFOs.	我不信那些什么 '不明物体' 的报导.
Why would they appear only to cranks and weirdoes?	它们干吗要单向那些古古怪怪的人现身呢?
If there is a government conspiracy to suppress the reports and keep for itself the scientific knowledge the aliens bring, it seems to have been a singularly ineffective policy so far.	若真有一个甚麽政府阴谋要将报导打住 从而将外星人所带来之科学识据为己有, 那可真像个既离奇, 亦从未见效的举措.
Furthermore, despite an extensive search by the SETI project, we haven't heard any alien television quiz shows.	再说, 即便SETI计划已进行广泛探索, 我们还没有收听到任何外太空电视答问节目.
This probably indicates that there are no alien civilizations at our stage of development within a radius of a few hundred light years.	这可能昭示在我们现阶段文明发展之 方圆数百光年范围之内 并没有其它外星异文化.
Issuing an insurance policy against abduction by aliens seems a pretty safe bet.	卖保险给那些 怕被外星人绑架的人，看来是个不错的选择。
This brings me to the last of the big questions: the future of the human race.	这送我到了最后一个大问题: 人类的前途.
If we are the only intelligent beings in the galaxy, we should make sure we survive and continue.	若我们是星河里唯一智能生物, 就必须确保自己能存活并延续下去.
But we are entering an increasingly dangerous period of our history.	但我们正迈入历史中一个愈发危险的时段.
Our population and our use of the finite resources of planet Earth are growing exponentially, along with our technical ability to change the environment for good or ill.	我们的人囗和对地球有限资源的耗用, 正以几何级数增长, 相随的 是我们将环境或弄好或弄垮的技术才能,
But our genetic code still carries the selfish and aggressive instincts that were of survival advantage in the past.	至於我们的基因指令 则仍带着那自私和好斗的本质 这或有利於我们过往求存
It will be difficult enough to avoid disaster in the next hundred years, let alone the next thousand or million.	却又让我们於往后数百年内 人祸难逃. 更别说未来千百万年了.
Our only chance of long-term survival is not to remain lurking on planet Earth, but to spread out into space.	我们长活下去的唯一机会 不是一直呆着在地球 而是冲出太空去.
The answers to these big questions show that we have made remarkable progress in the last hundred years.	这些大问题之解答 显示我们于过去数百年取得可观进展.
But if we want to continue beyond the next hundred years, our future is in space.	可若要超越未来数百年, 我们的前途在於太空.
That is why I am in favor of manned -- or should I say, personed -- space flight.	正因此，我较倾向于 "人" 控 - 或许我应说, 由人驾驶之太空旅航.
All of my life I have sought to understand the universe and find answers to these questions.	我一生都在探究想要了解宇宙 并找出这些问题之答案.
I have been very lucky that my disability has not been a serious handicap.	我一直都非常幸运 我的残疾并没造成严重障礙;
Indeed, it has probably given me more time than most people to pursue the quest for knowledge.	说真的, 这反倒让我比大部分人获得更多时间 以从事知识之追求.
The ultimate goal is a complete theory of the universe, and we are making good progress.	终极目标是一套完备的宇宙论, 而我们已有良好进展.
Thank you for listening.	感谢您们的聆听.
Professor, if you had to guess either way, do you now believe that it is more likely than not that we are alone in the Milky Way, as a civilization of our level of intelligence or higher?	安德信: 教授, 若您必须二选其一作猜测, 此刻您是较相信还是较不相信 我们是天河中唯一 现水平或更高水平之智能文化?
This answer took seven minutes, and really gave me an insight into the incredible act of generosity this whole talk was for TED.	准备这答案已花了7分多钟, 真让我深切体会到 这整个演讲为TED所付出之 让人难以置信之慷慨.
Stephen Hawking: I think it quite likely that we are the only civilization within several hundred light years; otherwise we would have heard radio waves.	霍金: 我想我们应该是 数百光年范围内之独一文明; 否则我们应已收听到电波.
The alternative is that civilizations don't last very long, but destroy themselves.	另一种可能是, 该等文明都维持不久, 就自我毁灭掉.
Professor Hawking, thank you for that answer.	安德信: 霍金教授, 谢谢您的解答.
We will take it as a salutary warning, I think, for the rest of our conference this week.	我想, 我们会将之作为 这一周余下会谈之座右铭.
Professor, we really thank you for the extraordinary effort you made to share your questions with us today.	教授, 我们衷心感谢您今天为与我们分享您的问题 所作出之卓越贡献.
Thank you very much indeed.	真的非常感谢您.
So I'd like you to come back with me just for a few minutes to a dark night in China, the night I met my husband.	首先，我想带大家一起 回到一个 在中国的夜晚 那个与我丈夫初遇的夜晚
It was a city so long ago that it was still called Peking.	那是挺久以前了, 北京还被称作 Peking (北京的英文旧称）
So I went to a party.	我当时参加一个聚会
I sat down next to a stout, middle-aged man with owl glasses and a bow tie, and he turned out to be a Fulbright scholar, there in China specifically to study Sino-Soviet relations.	坐在一个戴着猫头鹰眼镜打着领结的 壮硕中年男人旁边 他原来是一名富布赖特学者 在中国从事 对中苏关系的研究
What a gift it was to the eager, young foreign correspondent that I was then.	对我这个年轻而急切的外国记者来说 这真是一个美好的礼物
I'd pump him for information, I'm mentally scribbling notes for the stories I plan to write.	我从他这里获得了很多信息 心里开始起草 我准备写的故事
I talk to him for hours.	那天我跟他聊了几个小时
Only months later, I discover who he really was.	几个月之后 我发现了他的真实身份
He was the China representative for the American Soybean Association.	他是美国大豆协会 驻中国代表
"I don't understand. Soybeans?	"我不理解，大豆？
You told me you were a Fulbright scholar."	你告诉我你是个富布赖特学者。"
"Well, how long would you have talked to me if I told you we're in soybeans?"	"可是，如果我告诉你我是大豆协会的 你会跟我聊多久呢？"
I said, "You jerk."	我说"混蛋"
Only jerk wasn't the word I used.	不过我当时不是用的混蛋这个词
I said, "You could've gotten me fired."	我说，"你会让我被解雇的"
And he said, "Let's get married."	他说，"我们结婚吧"
"Travel the world and have lots of kids."	"带着很多孩子周游世界。"
So we did.	于是我们结婚了
And what an alive man Terence Bryan Foley turned out to be.	（鼓掌） 特伦斯是一个 非常有活力的人
He was a Chinese scholar who later, in his 60s, got a Ph.D. in Chinese history.	他是一个中文学者 在他60几岁的时候 还获得了中国历史的博士学位
He spoke six languages, he played 15 musical instruments, he was a licensed pilot, he had once been a San Francisco cable car operator, he was an expert in swine nutrition, dairy cattle, Dixieland jazz, film noir, and we did travel the country, and the world, and we did have a lot of kids.	他会六种语言 15种乐器 他有飞行员执照 他做过旧金山缆车的司机 他在猪营养学，奶牛， 南方爵士，黑色电影方面都是专家 我们也一起周游了世界 生了很多孩子
We followed my job, and it seemed like there was nothing that we couldn't do.	我们做了很多，似乎 没有什么是我们做不到的
So when we found the cancer, it doesn't seem strange to us at all that without saying a word to each other, we believed that, if we were smart enough and strong enough and brave enough, and we worked hard enough, we could keep him from dying ever.	当他被诊断出癌症 对我们来说 这感觉一点也不陌生 我们相信 如果我们够聪明 够坚强和勇敢 并且努力奋斗 那他一定可以永远活下去
And for years, it seemed like we were succeeding.	在好几年里，我们似乎获得了成功
The surgeon emerged from the surgery.	他接受过多次手术
What'd he say? He said what surgeons always say: "We got it all."	他怎么说？就如外科医生总说的那样 "全部干净了"
Then there was a setback when the pathologists looked at the kidney cancer closely.	然后当医生仔细地检查过他的肾癌后 却又充满挫败
It turned out to be a rare, exceedingly aggressive type, with a diagnosis that was almost universally fatal in several weeks at most.	他被发现得的是一种 罕见且激进的癌症 一般来说这样的患者 最多只能活几周
And yet, he did not die.	但是，他还没有死
Mysteriously, he lived on.	他神奇地活了下去
He coached Little League for our son.	他为儿子做棒球教练
He built a playhouse for our daughter.	为女儿建了玩耍的房子
And meanwhile, I'm burying myself in the Internet looking for specialists.	同时，我把自己埋在互联网里 寻找相关的专家
I'm looking for a cure.	寻找治疗方案
So a year goes by before the cancer, as cancers do, reappears, and with it comes another death sentence, this time nine months.	就这样时间又过了一年 癌症预料中地 又重新出现 随之而来的是又一份死亡判决 这次是九个月
So we try another treatment, aggressive, nasty.	我们尝试了另外一种治疗方法，激进而讨厌
It makes him so sick, he has to quit it, yet still he lives on.	这让他非常难受，只好放弃 但是他还活着
Then another year goes by.	又过了一年
Two years go by.	两年
More specialists.	为了接受更多专家的治疗
We take the kids to Italy.	我们带着孩子去意大利
We take the kids to Australia.	去澳大利亚
And then more years pass, and the cancer begins to grow.	更多年过去了 癌细胞又开始生长
This time, there's new treatments on the horizon.	这次，又有新的治疗方法进入视线
They're exotic. They're experimental.	诡异，而且还在试验中
They're going to attack the cancer in new ways.	这是一种新的消灭癌症的方法
So he enters a clinical trial, and it works.	他参与了这次临床试验，并且成功了
The cancer begins to shrink, and for the third time, we've dodged death.	癌细胞开始萎缩 第三次 我们躲过了死亡
So now I ask you, how do I feel when the time finally comes and there's another dark night, sometime between midnight and 2 a.m.?	我现在问你 我当时是什么感受 当最后时刻来临的时候 在那个 深夜两点的黑夜里
This time it's on the intensive care ward when a twentysomething resident that I've never met before tells me that Terence is dying, perhaps tonight.	这次是在重症病房里 一个20多岁的 我从未见过的医生 告诉我特伦斯就要不行了 可能就在今晚
So what do I say when he says, "What do you want me to do?"	当他问我，"我能为你做些什么？" 我说了什么？
There's another drug out there.	当时有一种新药
It's newer. It's more powerful.	更新，更强
He started it just two weeks ago.	他两周前开始服用
Perhaps there's still hope ahead.	可能还有希望
So what do I say?	我说了什么？
I say, "Keep him alive if you can."	我说，"让他活着，如果可以的话。"
And Terence died six days later.	特伦斯死于六天之后
So we fought, we struggled, we triumphed.	我们战斗过，挣扎过，也胜利过
It was an exhilarating fight, and I'd repeat the fight today without a moment's hesitation.	这是一场令人振奋的战斗 我会毫不犹豫地 将战斗继续直至今天
We fought together, we lived together.	我们一起战斗，一起生活
It turned what could have been seven of the grimmest years of our life into seven of the most glorious.	这原本是我们生命中 最严峻的七年，我们把它变成了 最辉煌的七年
It was also an expensive fight.	这是一场昂贵的战斗
It was the kind of fight and the kind of choices that everyone here agrees pump up the cost of end-of-life care, and of healthcare for all of us.	这是一种我们每个人 都会赞成的 大量增加晚年健康支出的 战斗和选择
And for me, for us, we pushed the fight right over the edge, and I never got the chance to say to him what I say to him now almost every day: "Hey, buddy, it was a hell of a ride."	对于我，对于我们 我们战斗到了最后一刻 我从来没有机会跟他说 这句我现在每天重复的话 "嘿，这真是刺激的过程。"
We never got the chance to say goodbye.	我们没有机会互相道别
We never thought it was the end.	我们没有想过那就是终结
We always had hope.	我们总是充满希望
So what do we make of all of this?	我们所做的这一切是为了什么？
Being a journalist, after Terence died, I wrote a book, "The Cost Of Hope."	作为一个记者，在特伦斯逝世后 我写了一本书，"希望的代价"
I wrote it because I wanted to know why I did what I did, why he did what he did, why everyone around us did what they did.	我写这本书是因为我想知道 我为什么会这么做 他为什么会这么做 我们每一个人为什么会这么做
And what did I discover?	那么我发现了什么？
Well, one of the things I discovered is that experts think that one answer to what I did at the end was a piece of paper, the advance directive, to help families get past the seemingly irrational choices.	其中一个便是 医生认为能解答 我在最后做了的事是一张纸 "预先医疗指示" 以帮助家人做出这一看似不合理的选择
Yet I had that piece of paper.	我们得到了这张纸
We both did.	我们都有
And they were readily available.	它们很容易获得
I had them right at hand.	我正把它们拿在手中
Both of them said the same thing: Do nothing if there is no further hope.	上面是同样一句话 如果没有希望，就不要再做什么了
I knew Terence's wishes as clearly and as surely as I knew my own.	我清楚地知道特伦斯的愿望 就如同我自己的一样
Yet we never got to no further hope.	我们从来没有完全失去希望
Even with that clear-cut paper in our hands, we just kept redefining hope.	哪怕拿着这张意思明确的纸片 我们一直重新定义希望
I believed I could keep him from dying, and I'd be embarrassed to say that if I hadn't seen so many people and have talked to so many people who have felt exactly the same way.	我相信我能阻止他的死亡 这么说我会不好意思，如果我 没有见过那么多，跟那么多有着相同情况的人 交谈过的话
Right up until days before his death, I felt strongly and powerfully, and, you might say, irrationally, that I could keep him from dying ever.	直到他走的前一天 我仍然坚信 你可能觉得是不可理喻 但我坚信我能够阻止他的死亡
Now, what do the experts call this?	现在，专家们怎么称呼这种心态？
They say it's denial.	他们说这叫拒绝现实
It's a strong word, isn't it?	一个很强烈的词，是不是？
Yet I will tell you that denial isn't even close to a strong enough word to describe what those of us facing the death of our loved ones go through.	我告诉你们 这个词远远不够强烈 完全不能描述我们这种 面对爱人死亡时的人的心情
And I hear the medical professionals say, "Well, we'd like to do such-and-such, but the family's in denial.	我听医生们会这么说， "我们想做什么什么， 但是被病人的家人拒绝。
The family won't listen to reason.	他们听不进任何理由，
They're in denial.	他们只会拒绝现实。
How can they insist on this treatment at the end?	他们怎么能到了最后还坚持这种治疗呢？
It's so clear, yet they're in denial."	很明显，他们拒绝接受现实。"
Now, I think this maybe isn't a very useful way of thinking.	我想这并不是 一个有效的思维方式
It's not just families either.	不仅仅是家人
The medical professionals too, you out there, you're in denial too.	你作为医生 也是在拒绝现实
You want to help. You want to fix.	你想帮助，你想治疗
You want to do.	你想做一些事情
You've succeeded in everything you've done, and having a patient die, well, that must feel like failure.	你取得过很多成功 但是现在你的病人要死了 一定感觉非常失败
I saw it firsthand.	我理解这种挫折
Just days before Terence died, his oncologist said, "Tell Terence that better days are just ahead."	就在特伦斯走的前几天 他的肿瘤医生说， "告诉特伦斯，过些天会好些的。"
Days before he died.	就在去世的前几天
Yet Ira Byock, the director of palliative medicine at Dartmouth said, "You know, the best doctor in the world has never succeeded in making anyone immortal."	达特茅斯学院缓和医疗部的 主管伊拉·比约克 说过，"最优秀的医生 也无法使人长生不死。"
So what the experts call "denial," I call "hope," and I'd like to borrow a phrase from my friends in software design.	医生们所说的"拒绝现实"，我说的"希望" 然后我想借用 一个做软件界的朋友的一句话
You just redefine denial and hope, and it becomes a feature of being human.	你重新定义拒绝现实和希望 这是作为人类的一个功能
It's not a bug.	而不是一个漏洞
It's a feature.	这是一个功能
So we need to think more constructively about this very common, very profound and very powerful human emotion.	所以我们需要更具建设性地 去思考这一常见，深远 有力的人类情绪
It's part of the human condition, and yet our system and our thinking isn't built to accommodate it.	这是一种人类状态 但是我们的系统和我们的思维 并没有去接受并包容它
So Terence told me a story on that long-ago night, and I believed it.	当特伦斯在那个遥远的夜晚给我说了一个故事 我相信了
Maybe I wanted to believe it.	也许我只是愿意去相信
And during Terence's illness, I, we, we wanted to believe the story of our fight together too.	在特伦斯生病期间 我们也同样愿意去相信 我们一起战斗的故事
Giving up the fight -- for that's how it felt, it felt like giving up -- meant giving up not only his life but also our story, our story of us as fighters, the story of us as invincible, and for the doctors, the story of themselves as healers.	放弃战斗，这种放弃的感觉 不止意味着 放弃他的生命 同样意味着 放弃我们一起战斗的故事 放弃我们不可战胜的故事 放弃医生作为拯救者的 故事
So what do we need?	那我们需要的是什么？
Maybe we don't need a new piece of paper.	我们可能不需要一张新的纸片
Maybe we need a new story, not a story about giving up the fight or of hopelessness, but rather a story of victory and triumph, of a valiant battle and, eventually, a graceful retreat, a story that acknowledges that not even the greatest general defeats every foe, that no doctor has ever succeeded in making anyone immortal, and that no wife, no matter how hard she tried, has ever stopped even the bravest, wittiest and most maddeningly lovable husband from dying when it was his time to go.	而是需要一个新的故事 不是一个因为没有希望 而放弃战斗的故事 而是一个关于胜利 关于勇敢战斗 和优雅撤退的故事 一个承认 最优秀的将军也不能战胜每个敌人 最优秀的医生 也不能使人长生不死 一个再努力的妻子 也不能阻止 最勇敢可爱的丈夫 死亡的故事
People did mention hospice, but I wouldn't listen.	有人跟我提过临终关怀 不过我没有听
Hospice was for people who were dying, and Terence wasn't dying.	临终关怀是给将死之人的 但特伦斯并没有将要去世
As a result, he spent just four days in hospice, which I'm sure, as you all know, is a pretty typical outcome, and we never said goodbye because we were unprepared for the end.	最后，他只经历了四天的临终关怀 我确信，就像你们所知道的的 这是一个典型的结果 我们从来没有说再见 因为我们从没有准备好面对结束
We have a noble path to curing the disease, patients and doctors alike, but there doesn't seem to be a noble path to dying.	我们有高贵的治疗方式 病人和医生都有 但是我们并没有 高贵的死亡方式
Dying is seen as failing, and we had a heroic narrative for fighting together, but we didn't have a heroic narrative for letting go.	死亡被认为是失败 我们有一个共同战斗的 英雄故事 却没有一个放手面对死亡的英雄故事
So maybe we need a narrative for acknowledging the end, and for saying goodbye, and maybe our new story will be about a hero's fight, and a hero's goodbye.	我们也许需要一个 承认结束，说再见的故事 也许我们新的故事 是关于一个英雄的战斗和离世
Terence loved poetry, and the Greek poet Constantine Cavafy is one of my favorite poets.	特伦斯喜爱诗作， 而希腊诗人康斯坦丁诺斯·卡瓦菲斯 则是我的最爱的诗人之一。
So I'll give you a couple lines from him.	这里我会引述他的几句诗
This is a poem about Mark Antony.	这首诗是关于马克·安东尼的。
You know Mark Antony, the conquering hero, Cleopatra's guy?	马克·安东尼是个无坚不摧的英雄 她是埃及女王的男人
Actually, one of Cleopatra's guys.	埃及女王的男人之一
And he's been a pretty good general.	他是个不错的将军
He's won all the fights, he's eluded all the people that are out to get him, and yet this time, finally, he's come to the city of Alexandria and realized he's lost.	他赢了所有的战斗 他躲开了所有人的追捕 这一次，他最终 来到了亚历山大城 发现自己迷失了
The people are leaving. They're playing instruments.	人们正在离开
They're singing.	边奏乐，边唱歌
And suddenly he knows he's been defeated.	他在一瞬间知道自己被打败了
And he suddenly knows he's been deserted by the gods, and it's time to let go.	他瞬间知道 自己被上帝抛弃 是时候选择离开了
And the poet tells him what to do.	这首诗告诉他如何去做
He tells him how to say a noble goodbye, a goodbye that's fit for a hero.	告诉他如何说一声高贵的再见 一个符合英雄身份的再见
"As if long-prepared, as if courageous, as it becomes you who were worthy of such a city, approach the window with a firm step, and with emotion, but not with the entreaties or the complaints of a coward, as a last enjoyment, listen to the sounds, the exquisite instruments of the musical troops, and bid her farewell, the Alexandria you are losing."	"如同长期准备着， 仿佛勇敢面对着， 它成为你 值得战斗的城市， 迈着坚实的步伐与情感， 靠近窗口， 而不是一个懦夫的诉求 或抱怨， 作为最后的享受， 听着那声音， 那精湛的演奏组成的乐队， 与她告别， 你正在迷失的亚历山大。"
That's a goodbye for a man who was larger than life, a goodbye for a man for whom anything, well, almost anything, was possible, a goodbye for a man who kept hope alive.	这是一个比生命更伟大男人的道别 对于一个 所有事 几乎所有事都能做的 男人的道别 一个保留了希望的男人的道别
And isn't that what we're missing?	这正不是我们所缺失的吗？
How can we learn that people's decisions about their loved ones are often based strongly, powerfully, many times irrationally, on the slimmest of hopes?	我们如何才能理解 人们面对爱人做出的决定 不正是往往来自于强烈的，有力的 很多时候并不理智的 微薄的希望吗？
The overwhelming presence of hope isn't denial.	紧紧抱住一点点希望 不是拒绝现实
It's part of our DNA as humans, and maybe it's time our healthcare system -- doctors, patients, insurance companies, us, started accounting for the power of that hope.	而是人类基因的一部分 也许我们的医疗系统 医生，病人，保险公司以及我们 是时候开始计算希望的力量了
Hope isn't a bug.	希望不是一个漏洞
It's a feature.	而是是一个功能
Thank you.	谢谢
	（鼓掌）
You know, there's a small country nestled in the Himalayan Mountains, far from these beautiful mountains, where the people of the Kingdom of Bhutan have decided to do something different, which is to measure their gross national happiness rather than their gross national product.	妳们知道，有一个小国坐落在在喜马拉雅山脉上， 在这些美丽山脉的远处，不丹王国的人们 决定做一件与众不同的事。 那就是测量他们国家的快乐指数 而不是他们的国民生产总值。
And why not?	那为什么不呢？
After all, happiness is not just a privilege for the lucky few, but a fundamental human right for all.	毕竟，快乐不仅是小部分幸运者的特权， 而是所有人的基本人权。
And what is happiness?	那什么是快乐？
Happiness is the freedom of choice.	快乐是能自由地选择。
The freedom to chose where to live, what to do, what to buy, what to sell, from whom, to whom, when and how.	自由选择住在哪里， 做什么，买什么，卖什么 向谁买，卖给谁，什么时候做买卖，怎样做买卖。
Where does choice come from?	选择从哪里来？
And who gets to express it, and how do we express it?	谁有权去表达它？而我们怎样体现它？
Well, one way to express choice is through the market.	体现选择的其中一个方法就是通过市场。
Well-functioning markets provide choices, and ultimately, the ability to express one's pursuit for happiness.	运作良好的市场提供多种选择，而且最终 让人们能够体现他们"追求幸福"。
The great Indian economist, Amartya Sen, was awarded the Nobel prize for demonstrating that famine is not so much about the availability of food supply, but rather the ability to acquire or entitle oneself to that food through the market.	伟大的印度经济学家，Amartya Sen，曾获得诺贝尔奖， 因为他证明了饥荒和食物的供给量关系不大， 但是和获取食物的能力 或者和一个人有权通过市场获取食物的能力息息相关。
In 1984, in what can only be considered one of the greatest crimes of humanity, nearly one million people died of starvation in my country of birth, Ethiopia.	在1984年发生了一件只能被看作是 人类最大的犯罪的事，将近一百万人死于饥饿 就在我出生的国家，埃塞俄比亚。
Not because there was not enough food -- because there was actually a surplus of food in the fertile regions of the south parts of the country -- but because in the north, people could not access or entitle themselves to that food.	并不是因为当时没有足够的食物 而是因为 在国家南部的富饶地区实际上食物过剩了， 但是在北部的人们却无法获取 或者没有权利获得那些过剩的食物。
That was a turning point for my life.	这是我生命的一个转折点。
Most Africans today, by far, are farmers.	到目前为止的今天，大多数的非洲人都是农民。
And most of Africa's farmers are, by and large, small farmers in terms of land that they operate, and very, very small farmers in terms of the capital they have at their disposal.	而且总的来说，大多非洲农民 按他们所种土地面积而言算是小农民， 按他们能自由支配的资金数目而言，还有非常非常小的农民，。
African agriculture today is among, or is, the most under-capitalized in the world.	如今的非洲是全球农业资金最为不足的国家之一，甚至之最。
Only seven percent of arable land in Africa is irrigated, compared to 40 percent in Asia.	在非洲，只有7%的耕地面积得到灌溉。 和亚洲相比，他们有40%。
African farmers only use some 22 kilograms of fertilizer per hectare, compared to 144 in Asia.	非洲的农民每公顷地只用22公斤的肥料， 和亚洲相比，他们是144公斤。
Road density is six times greater in Asia than it is in rural Africa.	亚洲的公路密度比非洲农村地区的要大六倍。
There are eight times more tractors in Latin America, and three times more tractors in Asia, than in Africa.	拉丁美洲的拖拉机比非洲多八倍， 亚洲的拖拉机也比非洲多三倍。
The small farmer in Africa today lives a life without much choice, and therefore without much freedom.	如今生活在非洲的小农民们没有多少选择， 也就因此没有多少自由可言。
His livelihood is predetermined by the conditions of grinding poverty.	他的生活早已被 无休止的贫穷注定。
He comes to the market when prices are lowest, with the meager fruits of his hard labor, just after the harvest, because he has no choice.	正当他收割完，带着辛苦劳作换来的少得可怜的农作物来到市场时， 却正值物价最低， 因为他没有选择。
She comes back to the market some months later, when prices are highest, in what we call the lean season -- when food is scarce -- because she has to feed her family and has no choice.	几个月后她再来到市场， 这时物价是最高的，也就是我们所称的 淡季——这时食物匮乏—— 但是因为她要给家人买吃的，她没有选择。
The real question is, how can markets be developed in rural Africa to harness the power of innovation and entrepreneurship that we know exists?	这里面真正的问题是，非洲农村地区的市场应该如何发展 才能驾驭创新和创业力量？ 而我们知道这样的力量是确实存在的。
Another notable economist, Theodore Schultz, in 1974 won the Nobel prize for demonstrating that farmers are efficient, but poor.	另一位著名的经济学家，Theodore Schultz， 在1974年赢得诺贝尔奖，因为她论证了农民 尽管有效率，却依然贫困。
Meaning, in fact, that farmers are rational and profit-minded just like everybody else.	这意味着，实际上，农民是理智的， 而且正如其他任何人一样，他们也想赚钱。
Well, we don't need, now, any more Nobel prizes to know that farmers want a fair shake at the market and want to make money, just like everyone else.	现在，我们不需要 更多的诺贝尔奖也能明白，农民想要获得 市场中他们应得的一份，他们也想赚钱，正如其他任何人一样。
And one thing is clear, which is at least now we know that Africa is open for business.	有一件事是很清楚的：至少我们现在都知道 非洲对买卖是开放的，
And that business is agriculture.	而这里所说的买卖就是农业。
Over two decades ago, the world insisted to Africa that markets must be liberalized, that economies must be structurally adjusted.	二十多年前，世界坚持对非洲说 市场必须自由化，经济必须进行结构调整。
This meant that governments were to remove themselves from the business of buying and selling -- which they did rather inefficiently -- and let the private market do its magic.	这就意味着政府要 从买卖生意中退出。 而政府确实相当低效地退出了市场， 让自由市场施展自己的魔法。
Well, what happened over the last 25 years?	那么过去的25年发生了什么变化呢？
Did Africa feed itself?	非洲能自给自足吗？
Did our farmers turn into highly productive commercial actors?	我们的农民变成了高产的商人吗？
I think we're all in this room, probably, because we know that, in fact, Africa is the only region in the world where hunger and malnutrition are projected to go up over the next 10 years, where the food import bill is now double what it was 20 years ago, where food production per capita has stagnated, and where fertilizer use has declined rather than increased.	我想，我们都聚在这里， 很可能是因为我们都知道，事实上，非洲是全球唯一一个 预计在未来十年饥饿和营养不良人口 将继续上升的地区。 现在食品进口的账单比起20年前 已经翻了一倍。 人均粮食产量 停滞不前，而且肥料的使用不但没有增多，反而减少了。
So why didn't agriculture markets perform to expectations?	为什么农业市场没有像我们预期的那样运作呢？
The market reforms prompted by the West -- and I've spent some 15 years traveling around the continent doing research on agricultural markets, and have interviewed traders in 10 to 15 countries in this continent, hundreds of traders -- trying to understand what went wrong with our market reform.	西方国家推崇的这种市场改革到底哪里出错了？ 而我用了15年在非州游历考察， 对农业市场进行研究，并访问了 来自10到15个非洲国家的上百个商人， 试图去理解我们的市场改革到底哪里出错了。
And it seems to me that the reforms might have thrown the baby out with the bath water.	对于我来说，这个改革似乎 漏掉了最重要的东西。
Like its agriculture, Africa's markets are highly under-capitalized and inefficient.	比如说它的农业， 非洲的市场是极度资金不足并却毫无效率可言的。
We know from our work around the continent that transaction costs of reaching the market, and the risks of transacting in rural, agriculture markets, are extremely high.	我们从我们在非州做的调查得知， 到达市场之前的转手费 和农村农业市场的交易风险 是非常高的。
In fact, only one third of agricultural output produced in Africa even reaches the market.	实际上，甚至只有三分之一的产自非洲的农产品 能到达市场。
Africa's markets are weak not only because of weak infrastructure in terms of roads and telecommunications, but also because of the virtual absence of necessary market institutions, such as market information, grades and standards, and reliable ways to connect buyers and sellers.	非洲市场的不发达不仅是因为基础建设 如公路和电信，不完备，更因为 其缺乏所需的市场组织，比如 市场信息，评级和标准， 以及联系买卖双方的可靠方式。
Because of this, commodity buyers and sellers typically transact in small circles, in narrow networks of people they know and trust.	正因此，商品买卖双方往往只能在小范围内做交易， 在由他们认识和信任的人形成的人际网内做交易。
And because of that, as grain changes hands -- and I've measured that it changes hands four, five times in its trajectory from the farmer to the consumer -- every time it changes hands -- and I've seen this all over rural Africa -- it also changes sacks.	而且正因此，随着谷物转手—— 而我已经计算过从农民到消费者这一路 需要转手4，5次。 每次转手——而我看到这样的事情发生在整个非洲农村地区—— 它还要换包装。
And I thought that was incredibly peculiar.	我当时觉得这很奇怪。
And really realized that that was because -- as traders would tell me over and over -- that's the only way people know what they're getting in terms of the quantity and the product quality.	后来商人们对我说了一遍又一遍，我才真正明白只有这样， 人们才知道他们拿到的货物 的数量和质量。
And that actually has huge implications for the ability of markets to quickly respond to price signals, and situations where there are deficits, for example.	这里面实际上强烈暗示了 比方说，市场对价格信号 以及供应不足的情况快速反应的能力。
It also has very high cost implications.	这同时也暗示了这一做法的费用之高。
I have measured that 26 percent of the marketing margin is simply due to the fact that, because of the absence of grades and standards and market information, sacks have to be constantly changed.	我计算出26%的工业企业规定的商业加成 仅仅是因为没有 等级和标准制度，和市场消息 所以包装要不停地更换。
And this leads to very high handling costs.	这就导致了非常高昂的处理费。
For their part, small farmers, who produce the bulk of our agricultural output in Africa, come to the market with virtually no information at all -- blind -- trusting that they're going to have some sort of demand for their produce, and completely at the mercy of the merchants in the only market, the nearest local market they know -- where they're unable to negotiate better prices or reduce their risk.	对于生产出非洲大部分农业产品的小农民这部分人来说， 他们来到市场几乎是盲目地，一点信息都没有。 他们相信 他们的产品肯定会有一定的需求。 而让自己任由唯一一个市场 或者他们所知的最近的本地市场的商人任意摆布 他们讨不到更好的价钱，也降低不了风险。
Speaking of risk, we have seen that price volatility of food crops in Africa is the highest in the world.	说到风险，我们已经看到非洲粮食价格的 是全球最为反复无常的。
In Africa, small farmers bear the brunt of this risk.	在非洲，小农民们是首当其冲地承受着这种风险。
In fact, in my view, there is no region of the world and no period in history that farmers have been expected to bear the kind of market risk that Africa's farmers have to bear.	实际上，在我看来，世界上，历史上没有任何一个地区 会指望农民来承受如非洲农民所承受的 这种市场风险。
And in my view, there is simply no place in the world that has grown its agriculture on the kind of risk that our farmers in Africa today face.	在我看来，世界上也没有任何地方的农业 是建立在如今我们非洲农民 所面临的这种风险之上。
In Ethiopia, for example, the variation in maize prices from year to year is as much as 50 percent annually.	在埃塞俄比亚，打个比方，每年玉米价格的变化 高达五毛钱。
This kind of market risk is mind-boggling, and has direct implications for not only the incentives of farmers to invest in higher productivity technology, such as modern seeds and fertilizers, but also direct implications for food security.	这种市场风险令人瞠目结舌，而且 这不仅对打算直接投资 高生产力技术的农民的鼓励政策有直接影响，比方说现代种子和肥料， 而且对食品安全有直接影响。
To give you an example, between 2001 and 2002, Ethiopian maize farmers produced two years of bumper harvest.	给你们举一个例子来说，在2001－2002这两年间， 埃塞俄比亚种玉米的农民有特大丰收。
That in turn, because of the weak marketing system, led to an 80 percent collapse in maize prices in the country.	然而相应地，因为市场系统薄弱 导致本国的玉米价格下点了80%。
This made it unprofitable for some farmers to even harvest the grain from the fields.	这使得光是收割谷物的农民来说都毫无利润可言。
And we calculated that some 300,000 tons of grain was left in the fields to rot in early 2002.	我们可以算一算，快到2002年的时候，30万吨的谷物 被留在田野里烂掉。
Not six months later, in July 2002, Ethiopia announced a major food crisis, to the same proportions as 1984: 14 million people at risk of starvation.	不到6个月，也就是2002年的7月，埃塞俄比亚宣布进入了一个严重的食品危机， 规模接近1984年的——那一年1400万人口面临饿死的威胁。
What also happened that year is in the areas where there were good rains, and where farmers had previously produced surplus grain, farmers had decided to withdraw from the fertilizer market, not use fertilizer and actually had dropped their use of fertilizer by 27 percent.	那一年还发生了一件事。 在雨水充沛， 过去谷物生产过剩的地区，农民们决定 退出肥料市场，不再使用肥料。 实际上肥料的使用量减少了27%。
This is a tragic example of arrested development, or a budding green revolution stopped in its tracks.	这是发展延滞的一个可悲例子， 或者是一个初露头角的绿色革命被扼杀的例子。
And this is not just specific to Ethiopia, but happens over and over, all over Africa.	然而这不仅仅只发生在埃塞俄比亚。 而是在整个非洲一次又一次地重演。
Well, I'm not here today to lament about the situation, or wring my hands.	我今天来这里不是为了哀悼这个可悲的情况，也不是来抱怨什么。
I am here to tell you that change is in the air.	我来到这里是要告诉妳们，改变已经在悄然进行。
Africa today is not the Africa waiting for aid solutions, or cookie-cutter foreign expert policy prescriptions.	今天的非洲已经不是等待别人施舍救援的非洲， 也不是采用千篇一律的外国专家政策的非洲了。
Africa has learned, or is learning somewhat slowly, that markets don't happen by themselves.	非洲已经学会了，或者还正在学——尽管进程缓慢—— 市场不会自己形成和发展。
In the 1980s, it was very fashionable to talk about getting prices right.	在20世纪80年代，人们都很流行 说要把价格拿准。
There was a very influential book about that, which was mainly about getting governments out of the market.	当时有本很有影响力的书就是关于这个的， 主要说要把政府赶出市场。
We now recognize that getting markets right is about not just price incentives, but also investing in the right infrastructure and the appropriate and necessary institutions to create the conditions to unleash the power of innovation in the market.	我们现在意识到，要把市场拿准，不仅仅是 价格刺激，还要投资在正确的基础建设 和合适且必要的机构来创造 释放市场创新力的条件。
When conditions are right, we know and see that that innovation is ready to explode in rural Africa, just like anywhere else.	当条件对了，我们就知道并且能能够看到 非洲农村的创新力已经准备好爆发了， 正如其他任何地方一样。
Nearly three years ago, I decided to leave my comfortable job as a World Bank senior economist in Washington and come back to my country of birth, Ethiopia, after nearly 30 years abroad.	大概3年前，我决定离开我舒适的工作， 不再做世界银行的驻华盛顿的高级经济学家， 而是回到我出生的地方，埃塞俄比亚， 结束了我将近30年的国外生活，
I did so for a simple reason.	我这样做的原因很简单。
After having spent more than a decade understanding, studying, and trying to convince policymakers and donors about what was wrong with Africa's agricultural markets, I decided it was time to do something about it.	通过二十多年的 理解，学习和尝试说服决策人和捐赠者 非洲的农业市场到底哪里出错了， 我认为是时候坐言起行。
I currently lead, in Ethiopia, an exciting new initiative to establish the first Ethiopia Commodity Exchange, or ECX.	我最近在埃塞俄比亚倡议并领导着一个激动人心的新活动， 就是建立第一个埃塞俄比亚商品交易所，简称ECX。
Now, the commodity exchange itself, that concept, is not new to the world.	如今商品交易所这个概念本身 对大家来说并不新鲜。
In fact, in 1848, 82 grain merchants and farmers got together in a small town at the crossroads of the Illinois River and Lake Michigan to establish a way to trade better amongst themselves.	实际上，在1848，82名谷物商人和农民聚集在 伊利诺斯河和密歇根湖交界处的小镇， 试图建立一个更好的交易方法。
That was, of course, the birth of the Chicago Board of Trade, which is the most famous commodity exchange in the world.	芝加哥交易所也就是这样诞生的， 它现在是全球最著名的商品交易所。
The Chicago Board of Trade was established then for precisely the same reasons that our farmers today would benefit from a commodity exchange.	当时芝加哥交易所的建立 也是为了同样的原因， 希望今天我们的农民也能从商品交易所当中受益。
In the American Midwest, farmers used to load grain onto barges and send it upriver to the Chicago market.	在美国的中西部，过去农民往往把谷物装运到大船上， 然后送往上游的芝加哥市场。
But once it arrived, if no buyer was to be found, or if prices suddenly dropped, farmers would incur tremendous losses.	然而一旦货物抵港，如果没有买家， 或者价格突然暴跌，农民就要承受重大的损失。
And in fact, would even dump the grain in Lake Michigan, rather than spend more money transporting it back to their farms.	实际上，农民甚至会把谷物都倒进密歇根湖里， 也不愿花再多的钱把货物运回农场。
Well, the need to avoid these huge risks and tremendous losses led to the birth of the futures market, and the underlying system of grading grain and receipting -- issuing warehouse receipts on the basis of which trade could be done.	人民需要避免这种极高的风险和重大的损失 催生出了期货市场， 而谷物的分级和验收的根本制度——签发仓库收据 建立在完成交易的基础至上。
From there, the greatest innovation of all came about in this market, which is that buyers and sellers could transact grain without actually having to physically or visually inspect the grain.	从这里开始，市场最伟大的创新出现了， 买家和卖家不需要亲身出现，不需要亲眼监督， 也能够进行谷物买卖。
That meant that grain could be traded across tremendous distances, and even across time -- as far forward as 18 months into the future.	这就意味着谷物的交易能穿越很长的距离进行， 或者甚至穿越时间——能提前做18个月后的买卖。
This innovation is at the heart of the transformation of American agriculture, and the rise of Chicago to a global market, agricultural market, superpower from where it was, a small regional town.	这个活动就是美国农业转变的核心， 也是芝加哥从一个本地小镇上升至国际市场， 农业市场，超级大国的主因。
Now, over the last century, we tend to think of commodity exchanges as the purview of Western industrialized countries, and that the reference prices for cotton, coffee, cocoa -- products produced mainly in the south -- are actually a reference price, or a price discovered in these organized commodity exchanges in the northern countries.	如今，回顾上个世纪， 我们趋向于认为商品交易所是 西方工业国家的特权。 而棉，咖啡，可可的参考价格， 这些主要产于南部的产品， 实际上是在北方国家这些有组织的商品交易所 定的参考价格，或者价格。
But that is actually changing.	但是情况正在改变。
And we're seeing a shift -- powered mainly because of information technology -- a shift in market dominance towards the emerging markets.	而我们也正亲眼目睹着， 这个改变主要是由信息科技来推动， 是一个由市场支配到新兴市场的转变。
And over the last decade, you see that the share of Western exchanges -- and this is the U.S. share of exchanges in the world -- has gone down by nearly half in just the last decade.	上个世纪，你们可以看到了西方交易所的份额 也就是美国占全球的交易所的份额 仅在过去的二十年就下跌了将近一半。
Similarly, there's been explosive growth in India, for example, where rural farmers are using exchanges -- growing here over the last three years by 270 percent a year.	同样的，这在印度却得到了骤增，比方说， 使用交易所的农村农民 在过去三年里每年激增2.7倍。
This is powered by low-cost VSAT technology, aggressively trying to reach farmers to bring them into the market.	这是由廉价的甚小口径终端技术推动的， 它们积极地联系农民，带领他们进入市场。
China's Dalian Commodity Exchange, three years ago, 2004, overtook the Chicago Board of Trade to become the second largest commodity exchange in the world.	中国的大连商品交易所，三年前—— 也就是2004年，取代了芝加哥交易所，成为 全球第二大的商品交易所。
Now, in Ethiopia, we're in the process of designing the first organized Ethiopia Commodity Exchange.	如今，在埃塞俄比亚，我们也正在设计 第一个有组织的埃塞俄比亚商品交易所。
We're not trying to cut and paste the Chicago model or the India model, but creating a system uniquely tailored to Ethiopia's needs and realities, Ethiopia's small farmers.	我们并不打算照搬芝加哥或者是 印度的模式， 而是根据埃塞额比亚的需求，实际情况和小农民 来特别量身定做。
So, the ECX is an Ethiopian exchange for Ethiopia.	因此"ECX"就是为埃塞俄比亚而专设的埃塞俄比亚的交易所。
We're creating a system that serves all market actors, that creates integrity, trust, efficiency, transparency and enables small farmers to manage the risks that I have described.	我们正在创建的系统适合所有市场参与者。 它产生的诚实，信任，高效，透明 更使得小农民们能处理我所说到的那些风险。
In the design of our commodity exchange in Ethiopia, we've done something rather unique, which is to take the approach of an integrated perspective, or what we call the ECX Edge.	埃塞俄比亚商品交易所的设计 被我们注入了独特的元素。 我们采用了综合法， 或者是被我们称作"ECX优势法"。
The ECX Edge pretty much creates the entire ecosystem in which the market will develop itself.	ECX优势法基本建立了整个生态系统， 使得市场能在其中自行发展。
And this is because one of the things we've learned over the last decade of studying market development in Africa is that the piecemeal approach does not work.	这也是我们 在过去二十年研究非洲市场发展中学到的其中一点—— 那就是"部分法"是没有用的：
You've got one donor trying to develop market information, another trying to work on or sponsor grades and standards, another ICT, and yet another on warehousing, or warehouse receipts.	一个捐赠者打算发展市场信息， 另一个人打算支助或者继续完善等级和标准制度， 再有的人要做信息与通信技术，然而另外的人投资仓库，或者是仓库收据。
In our approach in Ethiopia, we've decided to put together the entire ecosystem, or environment, in which trade takes place.	而我们决定在埃塞俄比亚采取的方法， 是要把整个生态系统 或是整个贸易发生的环境纳入一起考虑。
That means that the exchange will operate a trading system, which will initially start as an open outcry, because we don't think the country's ready for full electronic trading.	这就意味着交易所会经营一个贸易系统， 这在一开始会引起一片公然反对的声音。 因为我们认为，这个国家对全面电子贸易还没有准备好。
But at the same time, we'll do something which I think no exchange in the world has ever done, which is itself to operate something like an Internet cafe in the rural areas.	然而同时，我们将做一些 全球没有任何一家交易所做过的事，那就是在农村 开一些类似咖啡网吧的场所。
So that farmers and small traders can actually come to a terminal center -- what we call the remote access terminal centers -- and actually, without having to buy a computer or figure out how to dial up or any of those things, simply see the trading that's happening on the Addis Ababa trading floor.	这样一来，农民和小商客 就能来我们的终端中心，我们称为 远程接入终端中心。 人们无需购买电脑或者弄明白怎样拨号上网 或者这样那样的的问题，他们只需要看着 发生在亚的斯亚贝巴交易所的交易场地就可以了。
At the same time, what's very fundamental to this market is that -- and again, an innovation that we've designed for our exchange -- is that the exchange will operate warehouses around the country, in which grade certification and warehouse receipting will be done.	同时，对这个市场来说相当重要的一点， 也是我们设计这个交易所很有创新性的一点， 就是这个交易所会在全国各地经营仓库， 让等级证书和仓库收据能在内完成。
And in turn, we'll operate an in-house clearing system, to assure that payment is done appropriately, in the right amount and at the right time, so that basically, we create trust and integrity in the system.	相应的，我们将经营一个内部的清算系统 来保证支付能正常地 按时按量完成。 因此，基本上，我们是在这个系统当中建立信任和诚实。
Obviously, we work with exchange actors, and as we're developing the exchange market itself, we're also developing the regulatory infrastructure and legal framework, the overarching legal framework for making this market work.	显然我们是和交易的参与者打交道， 而当我们发展这个交易市场本身的时候， 我们也同样在发展监管和法律的基础构架—— 一个能使整个市场良好运作的全面的法律架构。
So, in fact, our proclamation is going to parliament next month.	因此实际上，我们的宣言 下个月就会递交给议会。
What's really important is that the ECX will operate a market information system to disseminate prices in real time to farmers around the country, using VSAT technology to bring an electronic price dissemination directly to farmers.	真正重要的是ECX将会经营一个市场信息系统， 向全国各地的农民们传达实时价格， 使用甚小口径终端技术直接给农民 转达电子报价。
What this does is transforms, fundamentally, the farmers' relationship to the market.	根本上来说，这改变了 农民和市场之间的关系。
Whereas before the farmer used to think local -- meaning that he or she would go to the nearest local market, eight to 10 kilometers away on average, and sell whatever they happened to have, without any idea of what the price premium or anything else was -- now farmers come with knowledge of what prices are at the national market.	以往的农民往往只能想到本地， 也就是说他或者她只会去最近的那个本地市场， 平均8到10公里以外， 并出售任何碰巧他们手头有的东西， 他们完全不懂附加值或其他任何的概念—— 如今的农民知道全国市场的价格。
And they start to think national, and even global.	而他们开始想到全国，甚至国际市场。
They start to make not only commercial marketing decisions, but also planting decisions, on the basis of information coming from the futures price market.	他们不但开始做商业市场的决定， 也做种植决定，根据来自期货价格市场 的信息。
And they come to the market knowing what grades their products will achieve in terms of a price premium.	而且他们来到市场，知道什么等级的产品 能获取多少的附加值。
So all of this will transform farmers.	因此，所有的这些都改变了农民。
It will also transform the way traders do business.	这还会改变商人做生意的方式。
It will stop them from doing simple, back-to-back, limited arbitrage to really thinking strategically about how to move grain across long distances from [surplus regions] to [deficit areas].	这会阻止他们做简单连续的，有限套利的交易， 使得他们真正战略性地考虑如何把谷物 从供应过剩的地区通过长距离运输到供应不足的地区。
Can Ethiopia do this?	埃塞俄比亚能做到这样吗？
It seems very ambitious.	这似乎过于野心。
But it will create new opportunities.	但是这将创造新的机会。
We believe that this initiative requires great political will, and we'll have to align the financial sector, as well as the ICT sector, and really even the underlying legal framework.	我们相信，这个倡议需要有强大的政治决心， 而我们将会和财政部门，还有信息与通信技术部联合起来， 并且切实地平衡基本的法律构架。
We believe that the winds of change are here, and that we can do it.	我们相信改变的春风已经吹到了这里，而我们完全能够做到。
ECX is the market for Ethiopia's new millennium, which starts in about eight months.	ECX是埃塞俄比亚新千年的市场， 将在未来八个月后启动。
The last parliament of our century opened with our president announcing to the country that this was the most important economic initiative for the country today.	我们世纪最后一届议会会议的开场白就是我们总统 向全国宣布这个 如今对本国最为重要的经济动议。
We believe that the stakes are high, but that the returns will be even greater.	我们相信风险是很高的， 但回报会更高。
ECX, moreover, can become a trading platform for a pan-African market in agricultural commodities.	ECX还能成为泛非市场的 农业商品的交易平台。
Ethiopia's domestic market is about one billion dollars of value.	埃塞俄比亚的国内市场价值约十亿美元。
And we feel that over the next five years, if Ethiopia can capture even 40 percent, just 40 percent, of the domestic market, and add just 25 percent value to that market, the value of the market doubles.	而且我们预期在接下来的五年里， 如果埃塞俄比亚能掌握哪怕是40%，只是40%的国内市场， 并仅仅增加市场价值的25%，市场的价值就会翻一倍。
Ethiopia's agricultural market is 30 percent higher than South Africa's grain production, and, in fact, Ethiopia is the second largest maize producer in Africa.	埃塞俄比亚的农业市场比 南非的谷物产量高出30%—— 而且实际上，埃塞俄比亚是非洲第二大的玉米生产国。
So the potential is there.	因此，潜力我们是有的。
The will is there.	决心我们是有的。
The commitment is there.	承诺我们是有的。
So we feel that we have a winning value proposition to transform farmers' choices, to grow our agriculture, and to change Africa.	我们认为我们有成功的价值定位 来改变农民的选择，来壮大我们的农业， 并来改变非洲。
So, we are in the business of finding our happiness.	因此我们在事业当中找到我们的快乐与幸福。
Thank you very much.	谢谢大家。
When I was seven years old and my sister was just five years old, we were playing on top of a bunk bed.	我七岁的时候我妹妹才五岁。 我们当时在一个双层床的上铺玩
I was two years older than my sister at the time -- I mean, I'm two years older than her now -- but at the time it meant she had to do everything that I wanted to do, and I wanted to play war.	那时候我比她大两岁 当然，我现在也比她大两岁 但是在当时这意味着她必须全都听我的 我想玩战争游戏
So we were up on top of our bunk beds.	于是我们爬到了双层床的上铺
And on one side of the bunk bed, I had put out all of my G.I. Joe soldiers and weaponry.	在床的一侧 我放上了我所有的玩具大兵和武器
And on the other side were all my sister's My Little Ponies ready for a cavalry charge.	另一边则是我妹妹的小马玩偶 时刻准备着进行一场骑兵突击
There are differing accounts of what actually happened that afternoon, but since my sister is not here with us today, let me tell you the true story -- -- which is my sister's a little bit on the clumsy side.	后来我们对那天下午发生的事情有不同的说法 但是既然我妹妹今天不在场 我就跟你们说说到底发生了什么 事实就是我妹妹有点笨手笨脚的
Somehow, without any help or push from her older brother at all, suddenly Amy disappeared off of the top of the bunk bed and landed with this crash on the floor.	不知道怎么回事，我这个做哥哥的既没碰她也没推她， 我妹妹艾米突然就从上铺掉下去了 狠狠地摔到了地上
Now I nervously peered over the side of the bed to see what had befallen my fallen sister and saw that she had landed painfully on her hands and knees on all fours on the ground.	我万分紧张地从床的一侧往下瞄 想知道发生了什么事 然后发现她痛苦地趴在地上 四脚着地
I was nervous because my parents had charged me with making sure that my sister and I played as safely and as quietly as possible.	我特别紧张，因为父母已经叮嘱过我 一定要保证妹妹和我 玩耍的时候注意安全，不要太闹腾
And seeing as how I had accidentally broken Amy's arm just one week before ...	这时候我突然想起来一星期之前 我才不小心弄破了艾米的胳膊
... heroically pushing her out of the way of an oncoming imaginary sniper bullet, for which I have yet to be thanked, I was trying as hard as I could -- she didn't even see it coming -- I was trying as hard as I could to be on my best behavior.	我颇具英雄气概地把她 从一个假想的扑面而来的狙击手子弹中推开 到现在她都还没有谢我呢 我当时可是拼了命的 她甚至都没看到那子弹迎面扑来 我可是拼命展示了我最厉害的一面
And I saw my sister's face, this wail of pain and suffering and surprise threatening to erupt from her mouth and threatening to wake my parents from the long winter's nap for which they had settled.	然后我看到我妹妹的脸 她满脸痛苦、惊讶的表情 马上就要哭出来了，极有可能吵醒 习惯在漫长冬季午睡的父母
So I did the only thing my little frantic seven year-old brain could think to do to avert this tragedy.	所以我做了一件 一个手忙脚乱的七岁小孩唯一能想到的事，来扭转悲剧
And if you have children, you've seen this hundreds of times before.	如果你有孩子的话，你肯定见过好几百次了
I said, "Amy, Amy, wait. Don't cry. Don't cry.	我说，"艾米，艾米，好了，别哭了，别哭了
Did you see how you landed?	你看到你是怎么落地的么？
No human lands on all fours like that.	人类是不会那样四脚朝地落下去的
Amy, I think this means you're a unicorn."	艾米，我觉得这意味着你就是传说中的独角兽。"
Now that was cheating, because there was nothing in the world my sister would want more than not to be Amy the hurt five year-old little sister, but Amy the special unicorn.	很明显这是骗她的，因为我妹妹现在最不想做的就是 那个受伤的五岁小妹妹艾米， 想做的是超级独角兽艾米
Of course, this was an option that was open to her brain at no point in the past.	当然，以前她是完全没有做独角兽这个想法的
And you could see how my poor, manipulated sister faced conflict, as her little brain attempted to devote resources to feeling the pain and suffering and surprise she just experienced, or contemplating her new-found identity as a unicorn.	于是就看到我那可怜的、被我控制了的妹妹如何纠结 她的小脑袋正在决定究竟是继续 回味刚才经历的那些 疼痛、折磨和惊讶 还是仔细考虑她作为独角兽的新身份
And the latter won out.	后者胜出了
Instead of crying, instead of ceasing our play, instead of waking my parents, with all the negative consequences that would have ensued for me, instead a smile spread across her face and she scrambled right back up onto the bunk bed with all the grace of a baby unicorn ...	于是她没哭，也没有停止游戏 更没有吵醒我们的父母 这些负面的影响都没有产生 她脸上划过一丝微笑 重新爬回到双层床的上铺，带着作为一只小独角兽的荣耀
... with one broken leg.	还有一条受伤的腿
What we stumbled across at this tender age of just five and seven -- we had no idea at the time -- was something that was going be at the vanguard of a scientific revolution occurring two decades later in the way that we look at the human brain.	我们在五岁或七岁 无意间发现的道理其实是 当然当时我们并不知情 后来一个科学革命的先锋观点 发生在二十年后，主要研究人脑的问题
What we had stumbled across is something called positive psychology, which is the reason that I'm here today and the reason that I wake up every morning.	我们当时的发现叫做积极心理学 这也是我今天站在这里的原因 同时也是我每天早晨醒来的原因
When I first started talking about this research outside of academia, out with companies and schools, the very first thing they said to never do is to start your talk with a graph.	当我刚开始在学术圈外谈论这个研究时 在公司以及学校 他们强调的第一件事就是 永远不要以图表开始你的谈话
The very first thing I want to do is start my talk with a graph.	我在这里想做的第一件事恰恰就是用图表开始我的演讲
This graph looks boring, but this graph is the reason I get excited and wake up every morning.	这个图表看起来很枯燥 但是它恰恰就是我每天保持兴奋并醒来的原因
And this graph doesn't even mean anything; it's fake data.	而且这个表什么也不是，它是一个假数据
What we found is -- If I got this data back studying you here in the room, I would be thrilled, because there's very clearly a trend that's going on there, and that means that I can get published, which is all that really matters.	我们从这些数据中发现—— 如果我用这些数据来研究在座的各位，估计我会很兴奋 因为很明显这里有一个趋势 这意味着我可以将这个出版了 这才是最关键的
The fact that there's one weird red dot that's up above the curve, there's one weirdo in the room -- I know who you are, I saw you earlier -- that's no problem.	事实是这个曲线上方有一个奇怪的红点 就是说在座有一个古怪的人 我知道是哪位，刚才我看到你了 这个不是问题
That's no problem, as most of you know, because I can just delete that dot.	你们都知道，这并不是问题 因为我完全可以删除这个点
I can delete that dot because that's clearly a measurement error.	我能删掉它是因为这明显是一个测量错误
And we know that's a measurement error because it's messing up my data.	我们都知道它是一个测量错误 因为它把我的数据弄乱了
So one of the very first things we teach people in economics and statistics and business and psychology courses is how, in a statistically valid way, do we eliminate the weirdos.	所以通常经济学、统计学、商务学以及心理学课程 都会教大家的一件事 是为保持数据的有效性，我们如何删除奇怪的数据
How do we eliminate the outliers so we can find the line of best fit?	我们如何通过删除异常值 来找出最合适的曲线呢？
Which is fantastic if I'm trying to find out how many Advil the average person should be taking -- two.	令人惊讶的是，当我试图研究 每个人应该服用的雅维数量时，我发现应该是两粒
But if I'm interested in potential, if I'm interested in your potential, or for happiness or productivity or energy or creativity, what we're doing is we're creating the cult of the average with science.	但是如果我对可能性感兴趣，如果我对你的潜力 或者快乐、生产力 或者精力、创造力感兴趣， 我们现在所做的就是对科学里的平均概念的迷信
If I asked a question like, "How fast can a child learn how to read in a classroom?"	如果我问一个问题，比如说 "一个孩子在教室里学习阅读能有多快？"
scientists change the answer to "How fast does the average child learn how to read in that classroom?"	科学家们会把问题变成"孩子在教室学习阅读 的平均速度是多少？"
and then we tailor the class right towards the average.	然后我们会把教室里的孩子都设想成平均水平
Now if you fall below the average on this curve, then psychologists get thrilled, because that means you're either depressed or you have a disorder, or hopefully both.	如果你低于这个平均线 心理学家就会感到很惊讶 因为这意味着你要么有抑郁症要么有身心障碍 或者很可能二者兼具
We're hoping for both because our business model is, if you come into a therapy session with one problem, we want to make sure you leave knowing you have 10, so you keep coming back over and over again.	我们希望你二者兼具，因为我们的商业模式是 如果你因为一个毛病来进行治疗 我们希望你离开的时候知道自己其实是有10个毛病的 这样你就会一遍又一遍地来进行治疗
We'll go back into your childhood if necessary, but eventually what we want to do is make you normal again.	如果必要的话我们会追溯到你的童年 但是最后我们想做的是使你变得正常
But normal is merely average.	但是正常这个概念只是指的平均水平
And what I posit and what positive psychology posits is that if we study what is merely average, we will remain merely average.	我以及积极心理学家们假设的是 如果我们只研究平均水平 我们就会一直停留在平均水平上
Then instead of deleting those positive outliers, what I intentionally do is come into a population like this one and say, why?	因此我们不会删除那些积极的异常值 我想做的是研究这些异常值的人群 然后探究其中的原因
Why is it that some of you are so high above the curve in terms of your intellectual ability, athletic ability, musical ability, creativity, energy levels, your resiliency in the face of challenge, your sense of humor?	为什么你们中有些人远远高于这个平均曲线？ 包括你的智商、运动能力、音乐才能 创造力、精力 面对挑战的弹性以及幽默感？
Whatever it is, instead of deleting you, what I want to do is study you.	不管是哪方面，我不会删除你，而是去研究你
Because maybe we can glean information -- not just how to move people up to the average, but how we can move the entire average up in our companies and schools worldwide.	因为或许我们可以收集信息 不仅仅是把平均值下面的人提高到平均曲线上去 而是如何将整个平均曲线提高 无论是在全世界范围内的公司还是学校都是如此
The reason this graph is important to me is, when I turn on the news, it seems like the majority of the information is not positive, in fact it's negative.	这个图表对我很重要 因为每当我打开新闻频道时，似乎大部分的信息 都不是积极的，事实上是消极的
Most of it's about murder, corruption, diseases, natural disasters.	大部分都是关于谋杀、腐败、疾病、自然灾害
And very quickly, my brain starts to think that's the accurate ratio of negative to positive in the world.	我立即想到 这才是世界上真正的消极和积极所占的比例
What that's doing is creating something called the medical school syndrome -- which, if you know people who've been to medical school, during the first year of medical training, as you read through a list of all the symptoms and diseases that could happen, suddenly you realize you have all of them.	这其实造成了一种叫做 医学院综合症的东西 如果你认识读过医学院的人 你就会知道在医学院一年级的时候 当你读完一份关于所有可能发生的疾病和相关症状的列表 你马上就会感觉好像所有这些症状和疾病自己都有
I have a brother in-law named Bobo -- which is a whole other story.	我有一个妹夫叫波波，这是另一件事了
Bobo married Amy the unicorn.	波波和我那个"独角兽艾米"妹妹结婚了
Bobo called me on the phone from Yale Medical School, and Bobo said, "Shawn, I have leprosy."	有一天他从耶鲁医学院 给我打来电话 他说，"肖恩，我得麻风病了"
Which, even at Yale, is extraordinarily rare.	这个病，在耶鲁都是其极罕见的
But I had no idea how to console poor Bobo because he had just gotten over an entire week of menopause.	但是我不知道怎么来安慰可怜的波波 因为过去的整整一礼拜他一直在克服自己的更年期问题
See what we're finding is it's not necessarily the reality that shapes us, but the lens through which your brain views the world that shapes your reality.	所以我们发现并不一定是现实世界造就我们 而是我们大脑用来看世界的那个镜片造就了我们的现实世界
And if we can change the lens, not only can we change your happiness, we can change every single educational and business outcome at the same time.	如果我们换一副镜片，我们不仅可以改变自己的快乐程度 同时还能改变每一个教育或者商业结果
When I applied to Harvard, I applied on a dare.	当年申请哈佛的时候，我完全是放手一试的
I didn't expect to get in, and my family had no money for college.	我并没有期望能被录取，家里也没有钱供我去读大学
When I got a military scholarship two weeks later, they allowed me to go.	两周后我拿到了军事奖学金，哈佛录取我了
Suddenly, something that wasn't even a possibility became a reality.	突然，一个连"可能"都谈不上的事情变成现实了
When I went there, I assumed everyone else would see it as a privilege as well, that they'd be excited to be there.	当我到了哈佛，我以为其他人也都跟我一样把来这里读书当做一个荣耀 他们到这里来肯定都特别兴奋
Even if you're in a classroom full of people smarter than you, you'd be happy just to be in that classroom, which is what I felt.	即使你坐在一个满是比你聪明的人的教室里 你也会很高兴，只是仅仅坐在那个教室就很快乐，这是我当时的感觉
But what I found there is, while some people experience that, when I graduated after my four years and then spent the next eight years living in the dorms with the students -- Harvard asked me to; I wasn't that guy.	但是我发现 同时其他人也有类似体会 四年之后我从哈佛毕业 然后在学生宿舍和他们住了八年 这可是哈佛邀请我去的，我可不是那种八年毕不了业的人
I was an officer of Harvard to counsel students through the difficult four years.	我作为哈佛的咨询师帮助学生们在四年大学时光进行心理咨询
And what I found in my research and my teaching is that these students, no matter how happy they were with their original success of getting into the school, two weeks later their brains were focused, not on the privilege of being there, nor on their philosophy or their physics.	在我的研究和教学中 我发现，无论这些学生入学之前取得的成功 让他们多么快乐 两周之后他们的注意力就不在作为一名哈佛学子的荣耀感了 也不在哲学或者物理学上面
Their brain was focused on the competition, the workload, the hassles, the stresses, the complaints.	他们的注意力集中在竞争、作业、 各种烦恼、压力和抱怨上面
When I first went in there, I walked into the freshmen dining hall, which is where my friends from Waco, Texas, which is where I grew up -- I know some of you have heard of it.	当我第一次开始工作的时候，我走进了新生食堂 我的来自德克萨斯州瓦克市的朋友在那里等我，我就是在瓦克市长大的 我知道你们可能有人听说过这个地方
When they'd come to visit me, they'd look around, they'd say, "This freshman dining hall looks like something out of Hogwart's from the movie "Harry Potter," which it does.	他们来看望我，并在食堂里四处参观 他们说，"这个新生食堂看起来有点像 电影哈利·波特里面霍格瓦茨魔法学校的食堂。"的确那个食堂是挺像的
This is Hogwart's from the movie "Harry Potter" and that's Harvard.	这边的是电影哈利·波特里面霍格瓦茨魔法学校的食堂，另一边是哈佛的食堂
And when they see this, they say, "Shawn, why do you waste your time studying happiness at Harvard?	当他们看到这些时， 他们说，"肖恩，你为什么浪费时间在哈佛研究快乐这个问题呢？
Seriously, what does a Harvard student possibly have to be unhappy about?"	说真的，哈佛大学的学生有什么 感到不快乐的理由么？"
Embedded within that question is the key to understanding the science of happiness.	这个问题恰恰包含了 理解快乐这门科学的关键
Because what that question assumes is that our external world is predictive of our happiness levels, when in reality, if I know everything about your external world, I can only predict 10 percent of your long-term happiness.	因为这个问题假设 通过外部条件是可以预测我们的快乐程度的 但实际上，如果我了解你所有的外部条件 我只能预测你长期快乐程度的10%。
90 percent of your long-term happiness is predicted not by the external world, but by the way your brain processes the world.	剩下的90% 都不是靠外部条件可以预测的 而是取决于你的大脑如何理解这个世界
And if we change it, if we change our formula for happiness and success, what we can do is change the way that we can then affect reality.	如果我们做一点改变 改变我们关于快乐和成功的定义准则 我们需要改变 自己影响现实的方式
What we found is that only 25 percent of job successes are predicted by I.Q.	我们发现只有25%的职业成功 是由IQ决定的
75 percent of job successes are predicted by your optimism levels, your social support and your ability to see stress as a challenge instead of as a threat.	其余75% 是由你的积极程度、人脉 以及把压力视为挑战而不是威胁的能力决定的
I talked to a boarding school up in New England, probably the most prestigious boarding school, and they said, "We already know that.	我跟新英格兰一个寄宿学校谈起这个问题，这个学校应该是最著名的寄宿学校 他们说，"我们知道这个问题，
So every year, instead of just teaching our students, we also have a wellness week.	所以每年，我们不仅教学，我们还有一周健康课。
And we're so excited. Monday night we have the world's leading expert coming in to speak about adolescent depression.	这个事情让我们都很兴奋。周一晚上请世界著名专家 来讲青少年抑郁问题
Tuesday night it's school violence and bullying.	周二晚上讲校园暴力和恃强欺弱问题
Wednesday night is eating disorders.	周三晚上是饮食紊乱问题
Thursday night is elicit drug use.	周四晚上是吸毒问题
And Friday night we're trying to decide between risky sex or happiness."	周五晚上我们正在讨论危险的性行为与快乐之间的抉择
I said, "That's most people's Friday nights."	我说，"大多数人周五晚都考虑这个"
Which I'm glad you liked, but they did not like that at all.	很高兴你们喜欢这个回答，但是他们似乎一点都不喜欢
Silence on the phone.	电话里一阵沉默
And into the silence, I said, "I'd be happy to speak at your school, but just so you know, that's not a wellness week, that's a sickness week.	为了打破沉默，我说"我很乐意在贵校做演讲， 但是你们也知道，这其实不是健康周，而是疾病周
What you've done is you've outlined all the negative things that can happen, but not talked about the positive."	你们列出了可能发生的消极事情 却没有提到积极的方面。"
The absence of disease is not health.	没有疾病并不代表健康
Here's how we get to health: We need to reverse the formula for happiness and success.	我们应该这样获得健康： 我们需要重新定义健康和成功的概念
In the last three years, I've traveled to 45 different countries, working with schools and companies in the midst of an economic downturn.	过去的三年里，我到过45个国家 和那里的学校、公司合作 在这个经济危机时期
And what I found is that most companies and schools follow a formula for success, which is this: If I work harder, I'll be more successful.	我发现大部分公司和学校 有这样一个成功的准则，就是 如果我更努力，我就会更成功
And if I'm more successful, then I'll be happier.	如果我更成功，我就会更快乐
That undergirds most of our parenting styles, our managing styles, the way that we motivate our behavior.	这符合我们大多数父母的教育方式，以及公司的管理方式 也符合我们行为激励的原则
And the problem is it's scientifically broken and backwards for two reasons.	但问题是从科学角度说这个观点是不成立的，是落后的，有两点原因
First, every time your brain has a success, you just changed the goalpost of what success looked like.	第一，每次你觉得成功的时候 你就会对成功重新进行定义
You got good grades, now you have to get better grades, you got into a good school and after you get into a better school, you got a good job, now you have to get a better job, you hit your sales target, we're going to change your sales target.	比如你取得了好成绩，接下来你必须取得更好的成绩 你进了一所好学校，接下来你必须进入更好的学校 你找到了一个好工作，下一步你得找到一个更好的工作 你达到了销售目标，下一步必须制定更多的销售目标
And if happiness is on the opposite side of success, your brain never gets there.	如果说快乐在成功的相反面，你永远不会得到快乐
What we've done is we've pushed happiness over the cognitive horizon as a society.	我们所做的是把成功抬高到了 社会的认知层面以外
And that's because we think we have to be successful, then we'll be happier.	这是因为我们觉得我们必须成功 这样才会快乐
But the real problem is our brains work in the opposite order.	但真正的问题是我们的大脑却在相反的方向运行
If you can raise somebody's level of positivity in the present, then their brain experiences what we now call a happiness advantage, which is your brain at positive performs significantly better than it does at negative, neutral or stressed.	如果你现在可以提高某个人的积极心理程度 那么他的大脑就会经历我们称为快乐优势论的过程 这时你的大脑在积极方面的表现 明显优于 它在消极、中立或者沮丧方面的表现
Your intelligence rises, your creativity rises, your energy levels rise.	你的智商提高、创造力提高、精力也提高了
In fact, what we've found is that every single business outcome improves.	事实上，我们发现 每件事的结果都改善了
Your brain at positive is 31 percent more productive than your brain at negative, neutral or stressed.	处于积极状态的大脑的生产力比 处于消极、中立或者沮丧状态下高31%
You're 37 percent better at sales.	你的销售额能提高37%
Doctors are 19 percent faster, more accurate at coming up with the correct diagnosis when positive instead of negative, neutral or stressed.	医生得出正确诊断的速度和准确率 也提高了19% 当他的大脑处于积极状态而不是消极、中立或沮丧状态下
Which means we can reverse the formula.	这意味着我们可以彻底改变这个准则
If we can find a way of becoming positive in the present, then our brains work even more successfully as we're able to work harder, faster and more intelligently.	如果现在我们可以找到一种使自己变得积极的方法 那么大脑运转会更成功 我们会工作得更努力、更快速、更聪明。
What we need to be able to do is to reverse this formula so we can start to see what our brains are actually capable of.	我们需要改变这个准则， 所以我们现在就来看看大脑究竟有多大能力
Because dopamine, which floods into your system when you're positive, has two functions.	当你有积极的心态时，多巴胺就会进入你的大脑系统 它有两个作用
Not only does it make you happier, it turns on all of the learning centers in your brain allowing you to adapt to the world in a different way.	多巴胺不仅可以使你更快乐 同时还可以打开大脑中所有的学习中心 让你以另一种方式来适应这个世界
We've found that there are ways that you can train your brain to be able to become more positive.	我们发现你可以通过训练自己的大脑 来使自己更加积极
In just a two-minute span of time done for 21 days in a row, we can actually rewire your brain, allowing your brain to actually work more optimistically and more successfully.	在一个连续21天进行的每次持续两分钟的实验里 我们可以重新连接你的大脑线路 使你的大脑可以变得 更积极、更成功
We've done these things in research now in every single company that I've worked with, getting them to write down three new things that they're grateful for for 21 days in a row, three new things each day.	我们现在正在做这些研究 在我合作过的每一个公司 让他们写下三件他们要感谢的事情 连续21天，每天三件新的事情
And at the end of that, their brain starts to retain a pattern of scanning the world, not for the negative, but for the positive first.	这个实验结束的时候 他们的大脑会形成一种模式 首先会以积极的心态看待这个世界，而不是消极的
Journaling about one positive experience you've had over the past 24 hours allows your brain to relive it.	回顾过去24小时你经历的一件积极的事情 会让你的大脑重新经历一遍那件事情
Exercise teaches your brain that your behavior matters.	实践告诉人们你的行为是很重要的
We find that meditation allows your brain to get over the cultural ADHD that we've been creating by trying to do multiple tasks at once and allows our brains to focus on the task at hand.	我们发现冥想可以 使你克服文化多动症 这个多动症是由于我们同时做不同的事情造成的 冥想可以让你的大脑集中精力在手头的一项工作中
And finally, random acts of kindness are conscious acts of kindness.	最后，看似随机的善举其实是有意识的善举
We get people, when they open up their inbox, to write one positive email praising or thanking somebody in their social support network.	当人们打开收件箱时， 我们让他们写一封积极的邮件 表扬或者感谢他们社交网中的某个人
And by doing these activities and by training your brain just like we train our bodies, what we've found is we can reverse the formula for happiness and success, and in doing so, not only create ripples of positivity, but create a real revolution.	通过这些行为 就像训练身体一样训练大脑 我们发现我们可以彻底改变快乐和成功的准则 通过这些事情，我们不仅可以创造出积极的影响力 还可以创造一个真正的革命
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
I want to talk a little bit today about labor and work.	今天我想谈谈 劳动和工作。
When we think about how people work, the naive intuition we have is that people are like rats in a maze -- that all people care about is money, and the moment we give people money, we can direct them to work one way, we can direct them to work another way.	当谈到人们是如何工作的时候， 我们首先联想到的是 迷宫中的老鼠 -- 他们在乎的只有金钱， 只要我们付钱给他们， 我们就能随心所欲地指挥他们， 让他们这样工作，或者那样工作。
This is why we give bonuses to bankers and pay in all kinds of ways.	正因为此，我们给银行家奖金， 用各种方式进行金钱激励。
And we really have this incredibly simplistic view of why people work and what the labor market looks like.	我们用一种非常简单的方法 来看待人们工作的动因 以及劳动市场的状况。
At the same time, if you think about it, there's all kinds of strange behaviors in the world around us.	同时，如果你稍微想想就会发现 这个世界上有各种各样奇怪的行为。
Think about something like mountaineering and mountain climbing.	以登山运动为例，
If you read books of people who climb mountains, difficult mountains, do you think that those books are full of moments of joy and happiness?	如果你读读那些登山人写的书， 那些有挑战性的山， 你认为那些书是充满着 欢乐和幸福的瞬间吗？
No, they are full of misery.	不，全是描写痛苦的。
In fact, it's all about frostbite and difficulty to walk and difficulty of breathing -- cold, challenging circumstances.	实际上，书中所讲的都是 关于冻伤之苦，前行之艰难， 和呼吸困难 -- 寒冷，极具挑战性的生存环境。
And if people were just trying to be happy, the moment they would get to the top, they would say, "This was a terrible mistake.	如果人们追求的是快乐， 当他们到达山顶的那一刻， 他们可能会说，"这真是个可怕的错误。
I'll never do it again."	我再也不会做这种事情了。"
"Instead, let me sit on a beach somewhere drinking mojitos."	(笑声） "我还是坐在沙滩上喝 Mojito吧。"
But instead, people go down, and after they recover, they go up again.	但相反，在人们下了山， 恢复了之后，他们又一次向山顶进发了。
And if you think about mountain climbing as an example, it suggests all kinds of things.	如果将登山当做一个例子的话， 它可以说明很多事情。
It suggests that we care about reaching the end, a peak.	它说明，我们在意实现目标，到达峰顶。
It suggests that we care about the fight, about the challenge.	它说明，我们在意竞争，在意挑战。
It suggests that there's all kinds of other things that motivate us to work or behave in all kinds of ways.	它还意味着， 有很多不同的事情， 以不同的方式来激励我们去工作。
And for me personally, I started thinking about this after a student came to visit me.	对我个人而言，我开始思考这个问题 是因一个学生的拜访而起。
This was a student that was one of my students a few years earlier.	几年前，他是我的一个学生。
And he came one day back to campus.	有一天他回到了校园。
And he told me the following story: He said that for more than two weeks, he was working on a PowerPoint presentation.	他给我讲了个故事： 他说，他用了两个多星期的时间 来做一个演示文稿。
He was working in a big bank.	那时他在一家很大的银行工作。
This was in preparation for a merger and acquisition.	这个演示文稿是用于公司合并和收购的。
And he was working very hard on this presentation -- graphs, tables, information.	他非常努力地在做这份演示文稿 -- 图表，表格，相关信息。
He stayed late at night every day.	每天都熬夜到很晚。
And the day before it was due, he sent his PowerPoint presentation to his boss, and his boss wrote him back and said, "Nice presentation, but the merger is canceled."	在截止日期的前一天， 他把这份演示文稿传给了他的老板， 老板在回信中说道， " 演示文稿做得很不错，但这项合并计划取消了。"
And the guy was deeply depressed.	这消息让这家伙非常沮丧。
Now at the moment when he was working, he was actually quite happy.	本来在他做这个任务的时候， 他是很开心的。
Every night he was enjoying his work, he was staying late, he was perfecting this PowerPoint presentation.	每天晚上都享受着这份工作， 享受着熬着夜，不断完善他的演示文稿。
But knowing that nobody would ever watch that made him quite depressed.	但在知道没人会看到他的成果之后，他沮丧极了。
So I started thinking about how do we experiment with this idea of the fruits of our labor.	于是我开始思索如何通过实验来验证 劳动成果所能发挥的作用。
And to start with, we created a little experiment in which we gave people Legos, and we asked them to build with Legos.	首先，我们设计了一个小实验 我们先给测试者一些乐高积木，让他们来搭建。
And for some people, we gave them Legos and we said, "Hey, would you like to build this Bionicle for three dollars?	在给其中一些人提供积木的时候， 我们对他们说， "嘿， 想不想拼装这样一个生化战士来赚 3 美元？
We'll pay you three dollars for it."	我们为此会付给你 3 美元的。"
And people said yes, and they built with these Legos.	他们答应了，然后就开始动手拼装乐高积木。
And when they finished, we took it, we put it under the table, and we said, "Would you like to build another one, this time for $2.70?"	等他们完成了，我们就拿走它，放在桌子下面， 然后们说，"再做一个怎么样? 这次我们会付你 2.7 美元。"
If they said yes, we gave them another one.	如果他们同意的话，我们就再给他们一个。
And when they finished, we asked them, "Do you want to build another one?" for $2.40, $2.10, and so on, until at some point people said, "No more. It's not worth it for me."	等他们拼完之后，我们又问， "还想再做一个吗？" 分别付给他们 2.4 美元，2.1 美元，依此类推。 直到人们说 "不用了，已经不值得我去做了。"
This was what we called the meaningful condition.	这就是我们所称作的意义条件。
People built one Bionicle after another.	人们一个接一个地制作生化战士。
After they finished every one of them, we put them under the table.	每当他们完成一个， 我们就把它拿到桌子底下。
And we told them that at the end of the experiment, we will take all these Bionicles, we will disassemble them, we will put them back in the boxes, and we will use it for the next participant.	然后在实验的最后我们告诉他们， 他们做的这些生化战士将会被拿走拆掉， 被放回盒子里，给下一个测试者用。
There was another condition.	还有另外一种情境。
This other condition was inspired by David, my student.	这情境是受我的学生 David 而启发。
And this other condition we called the Sisyphic condition.	这种情况被我们称为西西弗斯情境。
And if you remember the story about Sisyphus, Sisyphus was punished by the gods to push the same rock up a hill, and when he almost got to the end, the rock would roll over, and he would have to start again.	还记得关于西西弗斯的那个传说吗？ 西西弗斯被神惩罚 将一块岩石推到山上去， 每当他就要到达山顶的时候， 那石头就会滚回去， 然后他必须重头再来。
And you can think about this as the essence of doing futile work.	这个故事告诉人们无用工作的本质。
You can imagine that if he pushed the rock on different hills, at least he would have some sense of progress.	你可以想象，如果他是在不同的山上推着石头， 至少他会有点儿成就感。
Also, if you look at prison movies, sometimes the way that the guards torture the prisoners is to get them to dig a hole and when the prisoner is finished, they ask him to fill the hole back up and then dig again.	或者，如果你看过监狱题材的电影的话， 有时看守是这样折磨犯人的 先让他们去挖洞 当他们挖好洞之后， 又叫他们把那个洞填上，然后再重新挖。
There's something about this cyclical version of doing something over and over and over that seems to be particularly demotivating.	这种循环模式 反复再反复地做同一件事情 似乎特别的让人感到消极。
So in the second condition of this experiment, that's exactly what we did.	而我们的第二种实验情境 正是用这个方法。
We asked people, "Would you like to build one Bionicle for three dollars?"	我们问道："给你 3 美元， 你愿意拼装这个生化战士吗？"
And if they said yes, they built it.	如果他们同意，就开始拼装。
Then we asked them, "Do you want to build another one for $2.70?"	我们接着问，"现在给你 2.7 美元，你愿意再做一个吗？"
And if they said yes, we gave them a new one, and as they were building it, we took apart the one that they just finished.	如果他们愿意，我们就再给他们一个， 就在他们拼装第二个的时候， 我们把他们之前做好的那个拆开。
And when they finished that, we said, "Would you like to build another one, this time for 30 cents less?"	在他们拼完后， 我们问，"这次再少给你 30 美分， 你还愿意再做一个吗？"
And if they said yes, we gave them the one that they built and we broke.	如果他们愿意， 我们就把之前拼完又拆开的那个给他们。
So this was an endless cycle of them building and us destroying in front of their eyes.	这就成了一个无限循环 他们忙着拼装， 而我们当着他们的面把它们拆了。
Now what happens when you compare these two conditions?	当把这两种情况对比会发生什么呢？
The first thing that happened was that people built many more Bionicles -- they built 11 versus seven -- in the meaningful condition versus the Sisyphus condition.	首先我们发现， 相比西西弗斯情境，在意义情境下 受试者拼装了更多的生化战士 -- 11 比 7。
And by the way, we should point out that this was not a big meaning.	同时，我们必须指出， 这个意义条件并非特别重大。
People were not curing cancer or building bridges.	他们不是在治疗癌症也不是建造大桥，
People were building Bionicles for a few cents.	只是拼装生化战士赚几美分而已。
And not only that, everybody knew that the Bionicles would be destroyed quite soon.	不仅如此，每个人都知道，它们将很快被拆掉。
So there was not a real opportunity for big meaning.	因此这并没有什么重大的意义。
But even the small meaning made a difference.	但即使再小的意义也有所影响。
Now we had another version of this experiment.	然后我们又做了另外一个版本的实验。
In this other version of the experiment, we didn't put people in this situation, we just described to them the situation, much as I am describing to you now, and we asked them to predict what the result would be.	在新的实验中， 我们不把人们至于这个情境之中， 而只是向他们描述实验情境， 就像我现在向你们所描述的这样， 然后我们让他们预测实验的可能结果。
What happened?	这次发生了什么呢?
People predicted the right direction but not the right magnitude.	受试者都预测对了结果， 但是没有猜对这个结果的程度。
People who were just given the description of the experiment said that in the meaningful condition people would probably build one more Bionicle.	那些被告知实验细节的测试者 认为在有意义情景中， 人们可能会多拼装一个生化战士。
So people understand that meaning is important, they just don't understand the magnitude of the importance, the extent to which it's important.	由此可见，人们是知道意义的重要性的。 只是不清楚有多重要， 它的重要程度到底多深。
There was one other piece of data we looked at.	我们还将考虑了另一项因素。
If you think about it, there are some people who love Legos and some people who don't.	考虑到在这其中， 有些人喜欢乐高而有些则不喜欢。
And you would speculate that the people who love Legos will build more Legos, even for less money, because after all, they get more internal joy from it.	你可以推测那些喜欢乐高的人 会愿意拼乐高，即使回报少一点， 毕竟他们会从中得到更多的快乐。
And the people who love Legos less will build less Legos because the enjoyment that they derive from it is lower.	而那些没那么喜欢乐高的人 拼装的数量较少 因为他们从中得到的快乐较少。
And that's actually what we found in the meaningful condition.	这正是我们在意义情境中得到的结论。
There was a very nice correlation between love of Lego and the amount of Legos people built.	对乐高的喜爱程度和拼装的乐高的数量之间 有一种十分奇妙的关联。
What happened in the Sisyphic condition?	那么在西西弗斯情境下发生了什么呢？
In that condition the correlation was zero.	这种情境下的关联度为零。
There was no relationship between the love of Lego and how much people built, which suggests to me that with this manipulation of breaking things in front of people's eyes, we basically crushed any joy that they could get out of this activity.	人们对乐高的喜爱程度与拼装数量没有关联， 这也就说明我们通过 当着人们的面拆掉他们的劳动成果 会毁掉了人们从劳动中得到的乐趣。
We basically eliminated it.	我们几乎彻底抹杀了乐趣。
Soon after I finished running this experiment, I went to talk to a big software company in Seattle.	在完成了这项实验的之后不久， 我去了西雅图的一家软件公司。
I can't tell you who they were, but they were a big company in Seattle.	我不能告诉你们具体是哪家公司， 但那是西雅图的一家大公司。
And this was a group within this software company that was put in a different building.	在这家软件公司里有一群人 是被安置在另一座大楼里工作的
And they asked them to innovate and create the next big product for this company.	他们负责为公司创造和革新下一代产品。
And the week before I showed up, the CEO of this big software company went to that group, 200 engineers, and canceled the project.	而就在我到那儿一周之前， 这家公司的 CEO 来到这个 有 200 个工程师的小组， 取消了这项研发计划。
And I stood there in front of 200 of the most depressed people I've ever talked to.	当时在我面前的这 200 个人 是我所交谈过的人中最郁闷的一群。
And I described to them some of these Lego experiments, and they said they felt like they had just been through that experiment.	我向他们描述了这些乐高实验， 他们说他们感觉就像 刚刚经历过这些实验一样。
And I asked them, I said, "How many of you now show up to work later than you used to?"	于是我问道， "现在你们中哪些人比以前更晚上班了？"
And everybody raised their hand.	所有人都举手了。
I said, "How many of you now go home earlier than you used to?"	我说，"现在你们中哪些人比以前下班更早了？"
And everybody raised their hand.	所有人都举手了。
I asked them, "How many of you now add not-so-kosher things to your expense reports?"	我又问道：" 现在你们哪些人对开支报表动手脚了？"
And they didn't really raise their hands, but they took me out to dinner and showed me what they could do with expense reports.	他们并没有举手承认， 但他们邀请我去聚餐，然后向我演示了 他们能对开支报表做些什么。
And then I asked them, I said, "What could the CEO have done to make you not as depressed?"	于是我问道， " 当初你们的 CEO 要怎么做才能让你们不这么沮丧呢？"
And they came up with all kinds of ideas.	他们给出了各种各样的想法。
They said the CEO could have asked them to present to the whole company about their journey over the last two years and what they decided to do.	比如 CEO 可以让他们向整个公司展示 他们这两年来走过的路， 以及他们原本计划做的事情。
He could have asked them to think about which aspect of their technology could fit with other parts of the organization.	他本可以请他们思考这之中有哪些技术 可以应用于公司的其他领域。
He could have asked them to build some prototypes, some next-generation prototypes, and seen how they would work.	他本可以要他们做一些原型， 一些下一代产品的原型， 然后看它们是如何运行的。
But the thing is that any one of those would require some effort and motivation.	事实上每一个补救方案 都包含着努力和激励。
And I think the CEO basically did not understand the importance of meaning.	而我认为这位 CEO 没有意识到意义的重要性。
If the CEO, just like our participants, thought the essence of meaning is unimportant, then he [wouldn't] care.	如果这位 CEO，像我们的受试者一样， 认为意义的本质并不重要， 那他当然不会在意。
And he would tell them, "At the moment I directed you in this way, and now that I am directing you in this way, everything will be okay."	他只会告诉他们，"当时我要你这样做， 而现在我要你这样做， 一切都没有问题。"
But if you understood how important meaning is, then you would figure out that it's actually important to spend some time, energy and effort in getting people to care more about what they're doing.	但如果你知道意义是多么地重要， 你就会了解到 去把时间、精力、努力花在 让人们更在意他们所做的事情上 实际上有多么重要。
The next experiment was slightly different.	下一个实验有点儿不同，
We took a sheet of paper with random letters, and we asked people to find pairs of letters that were identical next to each other.	我们用一张写着随机单词的纸， 要求人们将其中相似的词语配对。
That was the task.	这就是他们的任务。
And people did the first sheet.	当人们完成了第一张，
And then we asked them if they wanted to do the next sheet for a little bit less money and the next sheet for a little bit less money, and so on and so forth.	我们会问他们是否愿意再做一张， 但这次报酬再少一点 然后再下一张更少，依此类推。
And we had three conditions.	我们创设了三种情境。
In the first condition, people wrote their name on the sheet, found all the pairs of letters, gave it to the experimenter.	在第一种情境中， 测试者把自己的名字写在纸上， 找到所有配对的单词 并把它交给实验员。
The experimenter would look at it, scan it from top to bottom, say "uh huh" and put it on the pile next to them.	实验员会检查一遍，从头到尾， 轻声说"嗯哼"， 然后把它放在边上一堆纸上。
In the second condition, people did not write their name on it.	在第二种情境中，测试者不在纸上署名。
The experimenter looked at it, took the sheet of paper, did not look at it, did not scan it, and simply put it on the pile of pages.	实验员扫视一下， 接过来，看也不看一眼， 就直接放到那堆纸上面。
So you take a piece, you just put it on the side.	只是拿过来然后放到一边去。
And in the third condition, the experimenter got the sheet of paper and directly put it into a shredder.	而在第三种情境中， 实验员接过那张纸， 看也不看就把它丢进碎纸机。
What happened in those three conditions?	那么在这三种情境下 分别发生了什么呢？
In this plot I'm showing you at what pay rate people stopped.	这个实验显示人们在什么时候会放弃。
So low numbers mean that people worked harder. They worked for much longer.	报酬越低说明人们越努力，撑得越久。
In the acknowledged condition, people worked all the way down to 15 cents.	在上述情境中，有人一直坚持到 15 美分那一步，
At 15 cents per page, they basically stopped these efforts.	到每张值 15 美分的时候，人们就不干了。
In the shredder condition, it was twice as much -- 30 cents per sheet.	在粉碎情境中，结果为两倍 -- 每张 30 美分的时候人们不干了。
And this is basically the result we had before.	这和我们之前的结果是差不多的。
You shred people's efforts, output, you get them not to be as happy with what they're doing.	你粉碎了人们的努力和成果， 他们对自己所做的就没有快乐可言。
But I should point out, by the way, that in the shredder condition, people could have cheated.	但我也顺便要指出， 在粉碎情境中，人们可能有作弊行为。
They could have done not so good work, because they realized that people were just shredding it.	他们的工作质量可能不高， 因为他们知道人们会直接把纸粉碎掉。
So maybe the first sheet you would do good work, but then you see nobody is really testing it, so you would do more and more and more.	所以可能第一张纸你会做得认真， 但后来你发现没人会检查， 那你就会不停地做下去。
So in fact, in the shredder condition, people could have submitted more work and gotten more money and put less effort into it.	所以实际上，在粉碎情境中， 人们可能做更多次实验，得更多的钱 但付出的努力却更少。
But what about the ignored condition?	但那个忽视情境又如何呢？
Would the ignored condition be more like the acknowledged or more like the shredder, or somewhere in the middle?	它是更类似于认可情境还是粉碎情境， 或者介于两者之间？
It turns out it was almost like the shredder.	结果发现它和粉碎情境几乎是相同的。
Now there's good news and bad news here.	现在有一个好消息和一个坏消息。
The bad news is that ignoring the performance of people is almost as bad as shredding their effort in front of their eyes.	坏消息是忽视人们的表现 几乎和在他们面前 粉碎他们的成果一样糟糕。
Ignoring gets you a whole way out there.	忽视让结果完全不同。
The good news is that by simply looking at something that somebody has done, scanning it and saying "uh huh," that seems to be quite sufficient to dramatically improve people's motivations.	好消息是只要稍微注意一下人们所做的， 浏览一下并应声"嗯哼，" 似乎就能非常有效地 提高人们的工作动力。
So the good news is that adding motivation doesn't seem to be so difficult.	所以好消息是提高动力并非难事。
The bad news is that eliminating motivations seems to be incredibly easy, and if we don't think about it carefully, we might overdo it.	坏消息是打消动力 似乎也是非常简单， 如果我们不小心，可能就做过了头。
So this is all in terms of negative motivation or eliminating negative motivation.	所以一切都是关于负面动力 以及消除负面动力。
The next part I want to show you is something about the positive motivation.	下面我想让你们看看正面动力。
So there is a store in the U.S. called IKEA.	在美国有一家店，叫宜家。
And IKEA is a store with kind of okay furniture that takes a long time to assemble.	宜家卖的都是质量一般 并且需要花很长时间组装的家具。
And I don't know about you, but every time I assemble one of those, it takes me much longer, it's much more effortful, it's much more confusing.	我不知道你们， 但是每次我组装家具， 都要花费更长的时间， 投入更多精力，更加令人迷惑。
I put things in the wrong way.	我把东西放错了位置，
I can't say enjoy those pieces.	我并不喜欢那些家具，
I can't say I enjoy the process.	我也并不享受这个过程，
But when I finish it, I seem to like those IKEA pieces of furniture more than I like other ones.	但当我完成后，比起其他家具， 我似乎更喜欢宜家的家具。
And there's an old story about cake mixes.	有一个关于蛋糕粉的故事。
So when they started cake mixes in the '40s, they would take this powder and they would put it in a box, and they would ask housewives to basically pour it in, stir some water in it, mix it, put it in the oven, and -- voila! -- you had cake.	当他们在 40 年代发明蛋糕粉的时候， 他们把蛋糕粉装进盒子里， 让主妇们只要倒出来加点水， 搅拌后放进烤箱，然后 -- 你看！蛋糕就有了。
But it turns out they were very unpopular.	但结果它们并不非常受欢迎。
People did not want them.	人们不想要这些。
And they thought about all kinds of reasons for that.	他们思考了各种可能的原因，
Maybe the taste was not good.	可能是味道不够好，
No, the taste was great.	不对，味道其实很好。
What they figured out was that there was not enough effort involved.	他们发现其实是 人们要付出的努力不够。
It was so easy that nobody could serve cake to their guests and say, "Here is my cake."	过程太简单了， 没人想就这么对客人说， "这是我做的蛋糕。"
No, no, no, it was somebody else's cake.	不，不，不，那人别人的蛋糕。
It was as if you bought it in the store.	就好像你从店里买了现成的。
It didn't really feel like your own.	感觉不像是你自己做的。
So what did they do?	然后人们怎么做呢？
They took the eggs and the milk out of the powder.	他们把鸡蛋和奶都从蛋糕粉了去掉。
Now you had to break the eggs and add them.	现在你得自己把鸡蛋打碎了加进去。
You had to measure the milk and add it, mixing it.	你得算好牛奶的量加进去搅拌。
Now it was your cake. Now everything was fine.	现在这是你做的蛋糕了。一切都好了。
Now I think a little bit like the IKEA effect, by getting people to work harder, they actually got them to love what they're doing to a higher degree.	我觉得这个宜家效应有些相似， 通过让人们付出更多努力， 使人们更爱他们所作的事情。
So how do we look at this question experimentally?	那从实验角度我们如何看待这个问题呢？
We asked people to build some origami.	我们让受试者做折纸手工。
We gave them instructions on how to create origami, and we gave them a sheet of paper.	我们告诉他们折纸方法， 然后给他们一张纸。
And these were all novices, and they built something that was really quite ugly -- nothing like a frog or a crane.	他们都是新手，折的东西都很难看 -- 不像青蛙也不像鹤鸟。
But then we told them, we said, "Look, this origami really belongs to us.	然后我们说，"你瞧，这个折纸实际上属于我们。
You worked for us, but I'll tell you what, we'll sell it to you.	你为我们工作，但你知道吗， 我们可以把它卖给你。
How much do you want to pay for it?"	你愿意出多少钱？"
And we measured how much they were willing to pay for it.	然后我们看看他们愿意出多少。
And we had two types of people.	我们发现有两种人。
We had the people who built it, and we had the people who did not build it and just looked at it as external observers.	有些人选择折纸， 有些人选择不折，只是做个旁观者。
And what we found was that the builders thought that these were beautiful pieces of origami, and they were willing to pay for them five times more than the people who just evaluated them externally.	我们发现选择折的那些人 认为这些折纸很美， 与那些观察的人相比， 他们愿意出 5 倍的价钱买这些折纸。
Now you could say, if you were a builder, do you think that, "Oh, I love this origami, but I know that nobody else would love it?"	现在你说，如果你是折纸的人， 你会觉得，"哦，我喜欢这个折纸， 但我知道没有其他人会喜欢？"
Or do you think, "I love this origami, and everybody else will love it as well?"	还是，"我喜欢这个折纸， 其他人也会一样喜欢？"
Which one of those two is correct?	这两种哪一种是正确的？
Turns out the builders not only loved the origami more, they thought that everybody would see the world in their view.	结果发现折纸的人不仅更喜欢折纸， 他们还认为所有人都和他们一样。
They thought everybody else would love it more as well.	他们认为所有人都会喜欢。
In the next version we tried to do the IKEA effect.	接下去一个实验版本， 我们尝试了宜家效应。
We tried to make it more difficult.	我们把实验难度提高。
So for some people we gave the same task.	所以我们给一些人同样的任务。
For some people we made it harder by hiding the instructions.	对另一些人我们把说明说藏起来， 增加难度。
At the top of the sheet, we had little diagrams of how do you fold origami.	纸张顶部有关于折纸的小说明。
For some people we just eliminated that.	对一些人我们就把说明删掉。
So now this was tougher. What happened?	现在难度增加了。会发生什么呢？
Well in an objective way, the origami now was uglier, it was more difficult.	客观来看，折纸现在更难看了， 难度更大了。
Now when we looked at the easy origami, we saw the same thing: Builders loved it more, evaluators loved it less.	当我们观察简单的折纸时， 我们有了同样的发现： 折纸的人更喜欢它，而观察的人则更不喜欢。
When you looked at the hard instructions, the effect was larger.	当说明书难度增高的时候， 该效应更为明显。
Why? Because now the builders loved it even more.	为什么？因为折纸的人更喜欢它了。
They put all this extra effort into it.	因为他们投入了额外的精力。
And evaluators? They loved it even less.	而观察的人呢？他们更不喜欢，
Because in reality it was even uglier than the first version.	因为实际上折纸比第一次更丑了。
Of course, this tells you something about how we evaluate things.	当然，这说明了我们是怎么观察事物的。
Now think about kids.	现在想想孩子。
Imagine I asked you, "How much would you sell your kids for?"	想象一下我问你， "要多少钱你肯把你的孩子卖了？"
Your memories and associations and so on.	包括记忆以及相关联的东西等等。
Most people would say for a lot, a lot of money -- on good days.	大多数人会说，得要一大笔钱 -- 孩子乖的时候。
But imagine this was slightly different.	但想象一下如果情况稍微有些不同。
Imagine if you did not have your kids, and one day you went to the park and you met some kids, and they were just like your kids.	想象如果你自己的孩子没了， 有一天你去公园看见一些孩子， 他们和你的孩子好像，
And you played with them for a few hours.	你和他们玩了一会儿，
And when you were about to leave, the parents said, "Hey, by the way, just before you leave, if you're interested, they're for sale."	当你准备走的时候，父母说， "嘿，你走之前顺便提一下， 如果你有兴趣可以买我的孩子。"
How much would you pay for them now?	你现在愿意出多少钱买呢？
Most people say not that much.	大多数人会说不多。
And this is because our kids are so valuable, not just because of who they are, but because of us, because they are so connected to us and because of the time and connection.	这是因为我们的孩子是无价的， 不仅是因为他们本身， 还因为我们自己， 因为他们和我们如此亲密， 因为我们一起度过的时光和联系。
And by the way, if you think that IKEA instructions are not good, think about the instructions that come with kids.	另外，如果你觉得宜家的说明书不好， 想想孩子自带的说明书是怎么样的。
Those are really tough.	难度真的很高。
By the way, these are my kids, which, of course, are wonderful and so on.	另外，这些是我的孩子，当然他们非常棒。
Which comes to tell you one more thing, which is, much like our builders, when they look at the creature of their creation, we don't see that other people don't see things our way.	这表明了另外一个问题， 就是，和我们的创造者一样， 当看自己所创造出的东西， 我们不知道别人看到的和我们不一样。
Let me say one last comment.	让我说最后一个观点。
If you think about Adam Smith versus Karl Marx, Adam Smith had the very important notion of efficiency.	当你想起亚当.史密斯和卡尔.马克思， 亚当史密斯有一句关于效率的名言。
He gave an example of a pin factory.	他举了一个制针工厂的例子。
He said pins have 12 different steps, and if one person does all 12 steps, production is very low.	他说制针共有 12 个步骤， 如果一个人做完 12 步，生产率非常低。
But if you get one person to do step one and one person to do step two and step three and so on, production can increase tremendously.	但如果一个人负责一步， 另一个人负责下一步，以此类推， 生产率就会大大提高。
And indeed, this is a great example and the reason for the Industrial Revolution and efficiency.	确实，这是个很好的例子， 也是工业革命及生产效率的起因。
Karl Marx, on the other hand, said that the alienation of labor is incredibly important in how people think about the connection to what they are doing.	反过来，卡尔马克思说， 人们与劳动的异化 对人们对自己工作的认识非常重要。
And if you make all 12 steps, you care about the pin.	你如果负责 12 个步骤，你会在意你的劳动成果。
But if you make one step every time, maybe you don't care as much.	但如果你只负责一步，那就不会这么在意了。
And I think that in the Industrial Revolution, Adam Smith was more correct than Karl Marx, but the reality is that we've switched and now we're in the knowledge economy.	而我认为在工业革命中， 亚当斯密斯比卡尔马克思更正确， 但现实是我们环境变了， 现在处在知识经济时代中。
And you can ask yourself, what happens in a knowledge economy?	你可以自问，知识经济时代会带来什么？
Is efficiency still more important than meaning?	效率是否仍然比意义重要？
I think the answer is no.	我认为答案是否定的。
I think that as we move to situations in which people have to decide on their own about how much effort, attention, caring, how connected they feel to it, are they thinking about labor on the way to work and in the shower and so on, all of a sudden Marx has more things to say to us.	我认为我们已经过渡到了另一种状态， 人们必须自己决定 要投入多少精力、注意力和心意， 要多大关联性， 他们上班路上或者洗澡的时候会想着工作吗， 突然间马克思更有道理了。
So when we think about labor, we usually think about motivation and payment as the same thing, but the reality is that we should probably add all kinds of things to it -- meaning, creation, challenges, ownership, identity, pride, etc.	因此当我们谈到劳动， 我们通常认为报酬就是动力， 但事实是它不止这些 -- 还包括意义、创造性、挑战、 所有权、自我意识、自豪感等等。
And the good news is that if we added all of those components and thought about them, how do we create our own meaning, pride, motivation, and how do we do it in our workplace and for the employees, I think we could get people to both be more productive and happier.	好消息是如果我们加上 并且考虑所有这些因素， 如何创造我们自己的意义、自豪感、动力， 如何在工作地点实施，为雇员创造条件， 我相信我们能让人 既能高产出又能感觉更幸福。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
What I'd like to start off with is an observation, which is that if I've learned anything over the last year, it's that the supreme irony of publishing a book about slowness is that you have to go around promoting it really fast.	在演讲开始，我愿意先讲一个事情， 如果说去年有什么让我印象深刻， 就是极具讽刺意味的 出版一本号召讲将速度慢下来的书 你却不得不超快速的四处推销它。
I seem to spend most of my time these days zipping from city to city, studio to studio, interview to interview, serving up the book in really tiny bite-size chunks.	我这些日子花了大部分时间， 在城市、演播室以及 访谈节目之间奔走， 但实际用来宣传书的时间却少的可怜。
Because everyone these days wants to know how to slow down, but they want to know how to slow down really quickly. So ...	因为现在每个人 都想知道该如何放慢速度， 然而，他们却想要知道如何超快速的放慢速度。所以...
so I did a spot on CNN the other day where I actually spent more time in makeup than I did talking on air.	前不久我在CNN上了一个通告 在那，我上电视的时间还没有化妆的时间长
And I think that -- that's not really surprising though, is it?	而我想这还真算不上让人吃惊的事，对吧？
Because that's kind of the world that we live in now, a world stuck in fast-forward.	因为我们现在所处的，就是一个这样的世界 一个沉溺于追求快速前进的世界。
A world obsessed with speed, with doing everything faster, with cramming more and more into less and less time.	一个迷恋速度的世界， 做每一件事情都追求更快，往越来越少的时间里 填鸭进更多的东西。
Every moment of the day feels like a race against the clock.	每一天每一刻都感觉像 在和时间赛跑
To borrow a phrase from Carrie Fisher, which is in my bio there; I'll just toss it out again -- "These days even instant gratification takes too long."	引用凯利.费雪的一句话，这句话 在我的自传里面有写，我只是再次引用 "现在大家连瞬间得到的快感都嫌太久。"
And if you think about how we to try to make things better, what do we do?	另外 假如让你想我们怎样才能将事情做得更好，会有什么主意？
No, we speed them up, don't we? So we used to dial; now we speed dial.	我们会加速做事情，不是么？所以，以前我们拨电话；现在我们快拨。
We used to read; now we speed read. We used to walk; now we speed walk.	以前我们阅读；现在我们快读。以前我们走路，现在我们快走。
And of course, we used to date and now we speed date.	当然还有，以前我们约会，现在我们速食约会。
And even things that are by their very nature slow -- we try and speed them up too.	即使是那些本身就需要慢慢做的事情 我们也千方百计加速做。
So I was in New York recently, and I walked past a gym that had an advertisement in the window for a new course, a new evening course.	我最近在纽约，路过一家健身馆 他们橱窗上有一个新课程的广告，是个晚间课程。
And it was for, you guessed it, speed yoga.	你猜得到吗，是关于快速瑜伽的。
So this -- the perfect solution for time-starved professionals who want to, you know, salute the sun, but only want to give over about 20 minutes to it.	这个就是为超级没时间的上班族们提供的最佳解决方案 这些人，想要练习（瑜伽）拜日式 但却只想花大约20分钟在这上面。
I mean, these are sort of the extreme examples, and they're amusing and good to laugh at.	我想，这些都是有点儿极端的例子， 而且都有些意思，可以当笑话听。
But there's a very serious point, and I think that in the headlong dash of daily life, we often lose sight of the damage that this roadrunner form of living does to us.	但是，这些例子也说明了一个非常严肃的问题， 在每天匆匆忙忙的生活中， 我们常常看不到 这种竞走式的生活方式给我们带来的伤害。
We're so marinated in the culture of speed that we almost fail to notice the toll it takes on every aspect of our lives -- on our health, our diet, our work, our relationships, the environment and our community.	我们已经在速食文化中淫浸得太深了 以至于我们几乎觉察不到它让 我们在生活方方面面所付出的代价。 对我们的健康，饮食，工作 人际关系，环境以及生活的社区都产生了消极的影响。
And sometimes it takes a wake-up call, doesn't it, to alert us to the fact that we're hurrying through our lives, instead of actually living them; that we're living the fast life, instead of the good life.	而有时候只要 一声警示来 提醒我们正在匆忙地度过我们的生命， 而不是真正有意义的过生活；提醒我们 我们在过快日子，而不是在过好日子。
And I think for many people, that wake-up call takes the form of an illness.	而我认为对很多人而言，那个警示铃 常常是以疾病的形式出现。
You know, a burnout, or eventually the body says, "I can't take it anymore," and throws in the towel.	疾病突然爆发，最后身体对你说 "我再也受不了了。"然后就垮了。
Or maybe a relationship goes up in smoke because we haven't had the time, or the patience, or the tranquility, to be with the other person, to listen to them.	也许这个警示会在一场恋爱化为泡影后出现 失败是因为我们抑或没有时间，抑或没有耐心， 或是不能安静地 陪着另一半，倾听他们的述说。
And my wake-up call came when I started reading bedtime stories to my son, and I found that at the end of day, I would go into his room and I just couldn't slow down -- you know, I'd be speed reading "The Cat In The Hat."	而我的警示铃是在我开始 为我儿子念睡前故事的时候响起的， 我发现在一天结束之时， 我走进他的房间，就是不能把自己的速度慢下来 我会很快的念《戴帽子的猫》
I'd be -- you know, I'd be skipping lines here, paragraphs there, sometimes a whole page, and of course, my little boy knew the book inside out, so we would quarrel.	我会这儿跳过几句， 那儿概括几句，有时几句话概括一整页的内容 当然，我的小儿子对这本书倒背如流，所以我们就会争起来。
And what should have been the most relaxing, the most intimate, the most tender moment of the day, when a dad sits down to read to his son, became instead this kind of gladiatorial battle of wills, a clash between my speed and his slowness.	当一个爸爸坐下来，为他的儿子读故事， 这本最应该是一天中最放松，最亲密， 最亲切柔软的时刻， 反而变成了这种角斗士般关于意志的争斗； 变成了他要快我要... 不，是我要快他要慢而引起的冲突
And this went on for some time, until I caught myself scanning a newspaper article with timesaving tips for fast people.	而且这种情况持续了一段时间， 直到我读了报纸上的一篇文章 是为追求快速的人提供的省时窍门。
And one of them made reference to a series of books called "The One-Minute Bedtime Story."	其中一个窍门引用了一系列丛书作参考，叫做 "一分钟的床前故事。"
And I wince saying those words now, but my first reaction at the time was very different.	而我，现在真不愿意承认 但是我那时的第一反应和现在非常的不同。
My first reflex was to say, "Hallelujah -- what a great idea!	我的第一反应是说， "哈利路亚——这是个多么棒的点子！
This is exactly what I'm looking for to speed up bedtime even more."	这正好能帮我把床前故事讲的更快一些。"
But thankfully, a light bulb went on over my head, and my next reaction was very different, and I took a step back, and I thought, "Whoa -- you know, has it really come to this?	但还好， 我头脑一清醒，而我的下面的反应就非常不同了， 我退回一步想， "停，真的达到这种地步了吗？
Am I really in such a hurry that I'm prepared to fob off my son with a sound byte at the end of the day?"	我真的忙到这种地步，要 在一天结束的时候，用一分钟故事来敷衍我儿子？"
And I put away the newspaper -- and I was getting on a plane -- and I sat there, and I did something I hadn't done for a long time -- which is I did nothing.	然后我把报纸拿开 我那时正在飞机上，我坐在那儿， 做了一件我很久没做过的事情——那就是我什么都没做。
I just thought, and I thought long and hard.	我就只是在思考，深思了很久时间。
And by the time I got off that plane, I'd decided I wanted to do something about it.	而当我下飞机的时候，我决定我要对此做些什么。
I wanted to investigate this whole roadrunner culture, and what it was doing to me and to everyone else.	我要研究整个的速食文化， 以及这个文化对我，对其他人都产生了什么影响。
And I had two questions in my head.	在我脑海中产生了两个问题。
The first was, how did we get so fast?	第一个问题是，我们怎么变得这么快的？
And the second is, is it possible, or even desirable, to slow down?	第二个问题是，有没有可能慢下来， 或者，我们想慢下来么？
Now, if you think about how our world got so accelerated, the usual suspects rear their heads.	现在，假如你思考 我们的世界是如何变得如此加速向前的，通常都怀疑是下面这些引起的
You think of, you know, urbanization, consumerism, the workplace, technology.	我们会想到城市化， 消费主义，工厂，技术。
But I think if you cut through those forces, you get to what might be the deeper driver, the nub of the question, which is how we think about time itself.	但是我想，如果你透过 这些方面，你会思考到可能是更深层的 驱动力问题，这个问题的核心， 就是我们如何看待时间本身。
In other cultures, time is cyclical.	在其它文化中，时间是循环往复的。
It's seen as moving in great, unhurried circles.	时间看起来是在巨大的 从容不迫的循环中移动。
It's always renewing and refreshing itself.	时间总是在不断复活，不断更新。
Whereas in the West, time is linear.	而在西方，时间是直线性的。
It's a finite resource; it's always draining away.	时间是有限资源， 总是不断在衰竭。
You either use it, or lose it.	你要么使用时间，要么失去时间。
"Time is money," as Benjamin Franklin said.	就像本杰明·富兰克林说的那样，时间就是金钱。
And I think what that does to us psychologically is it creates an equation.	我想这句话对我们心理上产生的影响 是这样的影响——它创造出一个平衡式。
Time is scarce, so what do we do?	时间非常有限，所以我们怎么办？
Well -- well, we speed up, don't we?	于是，我们就加速运转，不是么？
We try and do more and more with less and less time.	我们试着用更少的时间做更多的事。
We turn every moment of every day into a race to the finish line -- a finish line, incidentally, that we never reach, but a finish line nonetheless.	我们把每一天的每一刻 都变成向终点线的赛跑。 那一终点线，顺便说一句，我们却从未到达过， 但是那仍然还是一条终点线。
And I guess that the question is, is it possible to break free from that mindset?	那么我想问题是， 有没有可能从这一习惯性思维中跳出来？
And thankfully, the answer is yes, because what I discovered, when I began looking around, that there is a global backlash against this culture that tells us that faster is always better, and that busier is best.	还好，答案是"有可能"，因为 当我开始环顾四周，我发现，有一种 全球性的反抗力量存在，反抗这种高速度文化 这种高速度文化告诉我们越快越好，而且越忙越好。
Right across the world, people are doing the unthinkable: they're slowing down, and finding that, although conventional wisdom tells you that if you slow down, you're road kill, the opposite turns out to be true: that by slowing down at the right moments, people find that they do everything better.	在全世界，有人做着意想不到的事： 他们放慢节奏，而且发现 尽管习惯思维告诉你，假如你放慢节奏，就会被时代潮流抛弃， 而事实上结果却相反。 在合适的时候放慢节奏， 人们发现他们做什么都做得更好。
They eat better; they make love better; they exercise better; they work better; they live better.	他们吃得更好，性生活更和谐，锻炼效果更好， 他们工作更棒，生活得也更好。
And, in this kind of cauldron of moments and places and acts of deceleration, lie what a lot of people now refer to as the "International Slow Movement."	而在这些时刻，这些地方， 这些减速的行动中， 就存在着许多人所说的 国际慢活运动。
Now if you'll permit me a small act of hypocrisy, I'll just give you a very quick overview of what's going on inside the Slow Movement. If you think of food, many of you will have heard of the Slow Food movement.	现在，假如你允许我言行小小的不一致， 我将为你快速的概括一下—— 慢活运动中人们正在做些什么。若你们关心吃食， 那你们中许多人应该听过慢食运动。
Started in Italy, but has spread across the world, and now has 100,000 members in 50 countries.	这场运动开始于意大利，但已传遍全世界， 并且现在已经有100,000成员 遍布50个国家。
And it's driven by a very simple and sensible message, which is that we get more pleasure and more health from our food when we cultivate, cook and consume it at a reasonable pace.	而且这场运动只是被一个非常简单和明智的信条所驱使， 那就是，当我们以不紧不慢的速度种植、烹饪还有食用食物的时候， 我们从食物当中， 将获得更多快乐和健康
I think also the explosion of the organic farming movement, and the renaissance of farmers' markets, are other illustrations of the fact that people are desperate to get away from eating and cooking and cultivating their food on an industrial timetable.	我认为有机农业运动的 蓬勃发展，以及农场主市场的复兴， 也体现出 人们非常想从 享用、烹饪食物以及种植食物的工业化方式 中逃离出来。
They want to get back to slower rhythms.	他们想要慢些的节奏。
And out of the Slow Food movement has grown something called the Slow Cities movement, which has started in Italy, but has spread right across Europe and beyond.	而从慢食运动中产生了 被称之为慢活城市的运动，从意大利开始 却已经传遍欧洲和其它地方。
And in this, towns begin to rethink how they organize the urban landscape, so that people are encouraged to slow down and smell the roses and connect with one another.	而在这一运动中，城市 开始重新考虑如何规划城市景观， 能鼓励人们去——去放慢节奏 去闻闻玫瑰花，而且相互交流。
So they might curb traffic, or put in a park bench, or some green space.	所以他们可能会交通， 或是放置公园长椅，或是设置一些绿地面积。
And in some ways, these changes add up to more than the sum of their parts, because I think when a Slow City becomes officially a Slow City, it's kind of like a philosophical declaration.	某种程度上，这些改变能出现一加一大于二的效果。 当一座号召慢活的城市变成了一座真正意义上的慢速城市， 就有点像一种哲学理性上的宣言。
It's saying to the rest of world, and to the people in that town, that we believe that in the 21st century, slowness has a role to play.	它是在向世界其它地区宣称，也是向那座城市的人民宣称， 宣称我们相信在21世纪， 慢速将发挥其作用。
In medicine, I think a lot of people are deeply disillusioned with the kind of quick-fix mentality you find in conventional medicine.	在医疗方面，我想很多人都深感幻想破灭 对于你在传统医疗中存在的 那种速效治疗想法的幻灭。
And millions of them around the world are turning to complementary and alternative forms of medicine, which tend to tap into sort of slower, gentler, more holistic forms of healing.	因此全球数以百万的人转向 补充和替代形式的医疗， 这种医疗倾向于使用比较 慢一些，柔和一些，更全面的治疗形式。
Now, obviously the jury is out on many of these complementary therapies, and I personally doubt that the coffee enema will ever, you know, gain mainstream approval.	现在，对于许多的补充性治疗方法，明显还没有最后定论， 且我个人怀疑咖啡灌肠法 也不会得到大众的认同。
But other treatments such as acupuncture and massage, and even just relaxation, clearly have some kind of benefit.	但是其他治疗方法 比如针灸和按摩，甚至只是放松法， 却明显的有一定好处。
And blue-chip medical colleges everywhere are starting to study these things to find out how they work, and what we might learn from them.	且各处一流的医学院都正在 开始研究这些治疗方法，看它们如何产生效果， 以及我们能从这些方法中学到什么。
Sex. There's an awful lot of fast sex around, isn't there?	关于性，四处都有非常多快速的性关系，不是么？
I was coming to -- well -- no pun intended there.	我打算去 好吧——我没想暗示什么
I was making my way, let's say, slowly to Oxford, and I went through a news agent, and I saw a magazine, a men's magazine, and it said on the front, "How to bring your partner to orgasm in 30 seconds."	我当时正往，这么说吧，慢慢的往牛津走， 然后我经过一个报刊亭，看到一本杂志， 一本男性杂志，在封面上写着， "如何在30秒内把你的伴侣带入性高潮。"
So, you know, even sex is on a stopwatch these days.	你们看见了，就连性 现在也用计秒表数着时间了。
Now, you know, I like a quickie as much as the next person, but I think that there's an awful lot to be gained from slow sex -- from slowing down in the bedroom.	现在 我差不多和其他人一样快速完事， 但我认为从缓慢的性生活中， 在卧室里放慢速度，我们能收获非常多。
You know, you tap into that -- those deeper, sort of, psychological, emotional, spiritual currents, and you get a better orgasm with the buildup.	你利用这些更深层的， 有点儿心理的，情感的，精神的电流， 那么你会得到一个更棒的累积起来的性高潮。
You can get more bang for your buck, let's say.	让我们这么说吧，你可以为你的身体得到更大的快乐。
I mean, the Pointer Sisters said it most eloquently, didn't they, when they sang the praises of "a lover with a slow hand."	我的意思是，指针姐妹合唱团把这个道理说得最动人，不是么， 她们为爱人缓慢游走的手唱赞歌。
Now, we all laughed at Sting a few years ago when he went Tantric, but you fast-forward a few years, and now you find couples of all ages flocking to workshops, or maybe just on their own in their own bedrooms, finding ways to put on the brakes and have better sex.	几年前我们都嘲笑斯汀（歌手） 学习印度密宗性法（使缓慢持续）的事情 但是如果我们把时钟拨快几年，现在你会发现各个年龄层的夫妻 都去参加课程学习，或可能只是 在他们自己的卧室里寻找方法 来放缓步调，从而拥有更好的性生活。
And of course, in Italy where -- I mean, Italians always seem to know where to find their pleasure -- they've launched an official Slow Sex movement.	当然，在意大利，我是说，意大利人看起来总是知道 到哪去找乐子 他们已经开展了一场正式的慢速性生活运动。
The workplace.	在日常工作方面
Right across much of the world -- North America being a notable exception -- working hours have been coming down.	世界大部分地方的 工作时间都已经有所减少 不过北美明显是个例外。
And Europe is an example of that, and people finding that their quality of life improves as they're working less, and also that their hourly productivity goes up.	欧洲就是个减少工时的例子， 人们发现他们的生活质量上升了 随着工作时间的减少，工作时效也 提高了。
Now, clearly there are problems with the 35-hour workweek in France -- too much, too soon, too rigid.	现在，很明显的，法国每周35小时 的工作时间存在问题 太多，太快，太死板。
But other countries in Europe, notably the Nordic countries, are showing that it's possible to have a kick-ass economy without being a workaholic.	但欧洲的其它国家，特别是在北欧国家， 事实表明无须工作成狂 也能拥有 一流的经济
And Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland now rank among the top six most competitive nations on Earth, and they work the kind of hours that would make the average American weep with envy.	挪威、瑞典、 丹麦以及芬兰现在 都位列世界六大最具竞争力的国家之列， 并且他们工作时间之短会使得一般的美国人 嫉妒得想哭。
And if you go beyond sort of the country level, down at the micro-company level, more and more companies now are realizing that they need to allow their staff either to work fewer hours or just to unplug -- to take a lunch break, or to go sit in a quiet room, to switch off their Blackberrys and laptops -- you at the back -- mobile phones, during the work day or on the weekend, so that they have time to recharge and for the brain to slide into that kind of creative mode of thought.	而假如你越过这种国家层次， 往下看微观，公司层次， 现在越来越多的公司意识到 他们有必要让员工 或者减少工作时间，或者离开工作在 午餐时间休息一下，或者坐在一个安静的房间里， 关掉他们的黑莓手机——说你呢，后面那个 手机， 这些在工作日或周末的休息让他们有时间去充电 有时间让大脑进入 那种创造性思维模式。
It's not just, though, these days, adults who overwork, though, is it? It's children, too.	然而，现在并不只是 成年人工作超负荷，不是么？小孩子也是。
I'm 37, and my childhood ended in the mid-'80s, and I look at kids now, and I'm just amazed by the way they race around with more homework, more tutoring, more extracurriculars than we would ever have conceived of a generation ago.	我37岁，而我80年代中期才结束童年， 而现在我看着孩子们，看着他们赶着做 家庭作业，忙着补习 参加课外活动， 繁忙程度是我们这一代人从没想过的，我就感到很吃惊。
And some of the most heartrending emails that I get on my website are actually from adolescents hovering on the edge of burnout, pleading with me to write to their parents, to help them slow down, to help them get off this full-throttle treadmill.	而我在我的网站上收到的最令人 痛心的邮件 事实上就是出自徘徊在疲劳殆尽边缘的青少年之手 他们恳求我 给他们的家长写信， 帮助他们放慢节奏，帮助他们摆脱 这超速的运转。
But thankfully, there is a backlash there in parenting as well, and you're finding that, you know, towns in the United States are now banding together and banning extracurriculars on a particular day of the month, so that people can, you know, decompress and have some family time, and slow down.	但也谢天谢地，也有一些父母在反思， 大家会发现，美国的城市 现在开始联合行动，在每个月特定的一天 禁止课外课程，这样人们就能， 就能释放压力，拥有家庭时间，以此放慢步调。
Homework is another thing. There are homework bans springing up all over the developed world in schools which had been piling on the homework for years, and now they're discovering that less can be more.	家庭作业是另一回事。家庭作业禁令 在发达国家的学校非常普遍， 一些学校以前曾有家庭作业成堆的现象， 而现在他们发现作业数量少，质量可能更好。
So there was a case up in Scotland recently where a fee-paying, high-achieving private school banned homework for everyone under the age of 13, and the high-achieving parents freaked out and said, "What are you -- you know, our kids will fall" -- the headmaster said, "No, no, your children need to slow down at the end of the day."	因此，最近苏格兰出现一件实例 有一间苏格兰的高学费且高回报的私立学校 对13岁以下的学生 禁止布置家庭作业， 这让期望很高的父母吓了一跳并说， "你们在干什么，这样我们孩子的成绩会下降"校长却说， "不会，不会，你们的孩子需要在放学后放松下来。"
And just this last month, the exam results came in, and in math, science, marks went up 20 percent on average last year.	而就在上个月，考试成绩出来， 在数学，科学等课程上，分数上升了百分之二十 和去年平均成绩比。
And I think what's very revealing is that the elite universities, who are often cited as the reason that people drive their kids and hothouse them so much, are starting to notice the caliber of students coming to them is falling. These kids have wonderful marks; they have CVs jammed with extracurriculars, to the point that would make your eyes water.	而我认为非常具有启发意义的是 进入一流大学常常是家长驱使孩子 努力学习的原因，而这些大学却发现 他们学生的素质正在下降。 这些孩子拥有很棒的成绩， 他们的简历里写满了参加课外活动的经历， 多到会让你看了想哭的程度。
But they lack spark; they lack the ability to think creatively and think outside -- they don't know how to dream. And so what these Ivy League schools, and Oxford and Cambridge and so on, are starting to send a message to parents and students that they need to put on the brakes a little bit.	然而他们却缺乏活力，他们缺乏 创造性思考和独立思考的能力 他们不知道如何想象。因此，这些常春藤高校 以及牛津、剑桥等大学，开始向家长和学生们发出信息 表示家长学生们需要对此做出一些补救行动。
And in Harvard, for instance, they send out a letter to undergraduates -- freshmen -- telling them that they'll get more out of life, and more out of Harvard, if they put on the brakes, if they do less, but give time to things, the time that things need, to enjoy them, to savor them.	以哈佛大学为例，他们向 本科大一新生发出一封信 告诉他们，他们能从日常生活，从哈佛大学收获更多， 假如他们能减缓过于紧张的步调；假如他们能稍稍放松自己， 把时间放在那些有需要的事情上，给予那些事情足够的时间 好好享受，体味这些事情。
And even if they sometimes do nothing at all.	而有时候即使他们什么也不做（也能有很好的效果）。
And that letter is called -- very revealing, I think -- "Slow Down!" -- with an exclamation mark on the end.	我认为那封信的题目非常具有启发性，它叫 "放慢速度！"——以一个感叹号结尾。
So wherever you look, the message, it seems to me, is the same: that less is very often more, that slower is very often better. But that said, of course, it's not that easy to slow down, is it?	所以不管你从哪个角度看，这一讯息，在我看来，都是一样的。 少一点常常意味更多， 慢一些意味着更好。 然而这样说，当然， 并不是说放慢速度那么容易，不是么？
I mean, you heard that I got a speeding ticket while I was researching my book on the benefits of slowness, and that's true, but that's not all of it.	我的意思是，当我正在写关于"慢有何好处"的书时 拿到一张超速罚单， 这是真的，而且事实还远不止这样
I was actually en route to a dinner held by Slow Food at the time.	那时候，我实际上是在前往 慢食俱乐部组织的一场晚宴途中。
And if that's not shaming enough, I got that ticket in Italy.	如果这还不算丢脸的话，我还是在意大利拿的罚单。
And if any of you have ever driven on an Italian highway, you'll have a pretty good idea of how fast I was going.	如果你们中任何人曾在意大利高速公路上开过车的话， 你肯定知道我当时开得有多快。
But why is it so hard to slow down?	（观众大笑，因为意大利人开快车相当彪悍） 但是为什么放慢速度如此之难？
I think there are various reasons.	我认为原因有很多。
One is that speed is fun, you know, speed is sexy.	其一是速度快让人开心，你们知道的，速度快很性感。
It's all that adrenaline rush. It's hard to give it up.	这都是肾上腺冲动造成的。很难根除。
I think there's a kind of metaphysical dimension -- that speed becomes a way of walling ourselves off from the bigger, deeper questions.	有一种哲学上的维度—— 在这种维度中，速度成为了把我们自身与 更大、更深层次问题隔离的壁垒。
We fill our head with distraction, with busyness, so that we don't have to ask, am I well? Am I happy? Are my children growing up right?	我们脑子里充满着让我们分心和忙碌的事情， 使得我们不需要询问自己， 我还好么？我快乐么？我的孩子这样成长的方式是正确的么？
Are politicians making good decisions on my behalf?	政治家们的决定是否代表了我的利益？
Another reason -- although I think, perhaps, the most powerful reason -- why we find it hard to slow down is the cultural taboo that we've erected against slowing down.	另一个原因我认为最强有力的原因也许是 之所以这么难慢下来，是源自文化中的一种行为定式 我们树立起的文化不允许我们慢下来。
"Slow" is a dirty word in our culture.	缓慢在我们的文化中是个贬义词。
It's a byword for "lazy," "slacker," for being somebody who gives up.	它是懒，懒虫的代名词， 是用来说那些做事容易放弃的人的。
You know, "he's a bit slow." It's actually synonymous with being stupid.	"他有一点慢。"实际上是说 这个人有点蠢。
I guess what the Slow Movement -- the purpose of the Slow Movement, or its main goal, really, is to tackle that taboo, and to say that yes, sometimes slow is not the answer, that there is such a thing as "bad slow."	我想慢活运动的目的 或者说它的主要目标，事实上，就是去破除这种定式 是为了表明 有时候"该死的慢"的原因 并不是在于"慢"本身
You know, I got stuck on the M25, which is a ring road around London, recently, and spent three-and-a-half hours there. And I can tell you, that's really bad slow.	我最近有一次被困在 伦敦的M25环线公路上， 而且在那里困了三个半小时。我可以告诉你， 那才是真正的"该死的慢"
But the new idea, the sort of revolutionary idea, of the Slow Movement, is that there is such a thing as "good slow," too.	但从另一个角度看 慢活运动所包含的有点颠覆性质的思想 是说，有一种慢是"积极的慢"。
And good slow is, you know, taking the time to eat a meal with your family, with the TV switched off.	积极的慢就是花些时间 和家人吃饭，没有电视机在旁边干扰。
Or taking the time to look at a problem from all angles in the office to make the best decision at work.	或者是在办公室里花些时间把事情进行全面地梳理 从而做出最明智的决定 这是从工作角度来说。
Or even simply just taking the time to slow down and savor your life.	又或者只是花些时间 慢下来 品味生活。
Now, one of the things that I found most uplifting about all of this stuff that's happened around the book since it came out, is the reaction to it.	我发现自《慢活》一书出版以来 在所有发生的事情中，最令人振奋的 就是人们对这本书的反应。
And I knew that when my book on slowness came out, it would be welcomed by the New Age brigade, but it's also been taken up, with great gusto, by the corporate world -- you know, business press, but also big companies and leadership organizations.	我料想到，当这本关于慢活的书面市， 它会受到新生代的欢迎， 然而，它也同样被商界 津津乐道。不止那种 商业出版社，另外还有 大公司和组织的领导阶层的接纳。
Because people at the top of the chain, people like you, I think, are starting to realize that there's too much speed in the system, there's too much busyness, and it's time to find, or get back to that lost art of shifting gears.	因为像在座各位，处于领导链顶端的人，我想 他们开始意识到，在系统中 高速运作得有点过头了， 工作过于忙碌，是时候找回 那种已经遗失的慢速换挡艺术。
Another encouraging sign, I think, is that it's not just in the developed world that this idea's been taken up. In the developing world, in countries that are on the verge of making that leap into first world status -- China, Brazil, Thailand, Poland, and so on -- these countries have embraced the idea of the Slow Movement, many people in them, and there's a debate going on in their media, on the streets.	我觉得另一个令人鼓舞的现象 是不止在发达国家 人们开始接纳这种思想。在发展中国家中， 那些即将跨入 第一世界之列的国家——中国，巴西， 泰国、波兰以及其它一些国家 它们已经开始接受慢活运动的观点， 在媒体上，在大街小巷 也有关于此观点的争论。
Because I think they're looking at the West, and they're saying, "Well, we like that aspect of what you've got, but we're not so sure about that."	因为他们关注着西方世界，他们认为， "嗯，我们对你们在这方面的观点很感兴趣， 但我们不很确定是不是真的可能。"
So all of that said, is it, I guess, is it possible?	他们所说的这些，确实如此， 这是可能的么？
That's really the main question before us today. Is it possible to slow down? And I'm happy to be able to say to you that the answer is a resounding yes.	这确实是如今摆在我们面前的主要问题。是否可能 放慢速度？ 我很高兴我可以告诉你说 这个答案是，完全可能。
And I present myself as Exhibit A, a kind of reformed and rehabilitated speed-aholic.	我自己就是一个实证 一个改过自新并且恢复正常的 曾经的速度狂人。
I still love speed. You know, I live in London, and I work as a journalist, and I enjoy the buzz and the busyness, and the adrenaline rush that comes from both of those things.	我仍然喜欢快速。我住在伦敦， 而且是个记者， 喜欢忙忙碌碌， 喜欢由此产生的肾上腺素的刺激。
I play squash and ice hockey, two very fast sports, and I wouldn't give them up for the world.	我玩壁球，也玩冰球， 这两种都是非常讲究速度的运动，我绝不会放弃这两种运动。
But I've also, over the last year or so, got in touch with my inner tortoise.	但是在过去的一年多，我 与我内心的慢龟龟进行了交流
And what that means is that I no longer overload myself gratuitously.	那意味着 我不去，我不再去 无缘无故的弄得自己负荷过重。
My default mode is no longer to be a rush-aholic.	我的默认模式不再是 做一个大忙人。
I no longer hear time's winged chariot drawing near, or at least not as much as I did before.	我再 也听不到时间高速战车催促迫近的声音， 至少不再像以前我感觉到的那么多。
I can actually hear it now, because I see my time is ticking off.	我现在能听到这种时间催促的声音，因为我看到演讲时间分分秒秒过去。
And the upshot of all of that is that I actually feel a lot happier, healthier, more productive than I ever have.	而所有这些的重点结论是 比起从前的我，我真的感到更快乐，更健康， 更有效率了。
I feel like I'm living my life rather than actually just racing through it.	我觉得我在享受 我的人生，而不是在匆忙度日。
And perhaps, the most important measure of the success of this is that I feel that my relationships are a lot deeper, richer, stronger.	也许，最重要的 衡量慢活成功的标志是 我感觉到和他人的关系更密切 感情更深了，联系更强了。
And for me, I guess, the litmus test for whether this would work, and what it would mean, was always going to be bedtime stories, because that's sort of where the journey began. And there too the news is rosy. You know, at the end of the day, I go into my son's room.	对我而言，我想衡量这种方式 是否产生作用，以及它的意义最直接的方法 还是要回到我给儿子说睡前故事的事，因为那是这个事情 的开端。而这个结果 很美好。 晚上，我走进儿子的卧室。
I don't wear a watch. I switch off my computer, so I can't hear the email pinging into the basket, and I just slow down to his pace and we read.	没戴表，关上了电脑， 这样我就听不见有新电子邮件到达的震动声， 我按着儿子的速度慢下来，我们一起阅读。
And because children have their own tempo and internal clock, they don't do quality time, where you schedule 10 minutes for them to open up to you.	因为孩子们有自己的节奏和生物钟， 他们不管父母们计划的家庭时间 你计划10分钟让他们对你打开心怀。
They need you to move at their rhythm.	而他们却要你跟着他们的节奏来行动。
I find that 10 minutes into a story, you know, my son will suddenly say, "You know, something happened in the playground today that really bothered me."	10分钟进入了故事状态， 而我儿子却会忽然说，"你知道吗， 今天在操场上发生了些事情，真让我烦恼。"
And we'll go off and have a conversation on that.	然后我们就会不讲故事了，转而说说运动场发生了什么。
And I now find that bedtime stories used to be a box on my to-do list, something that I dreaded, because it was so slow and I had to get through it quickly.	而我现在发现 它曾经只是一种 一项例行公事，成为我负担的睡前故事 这件耗时得让我想赶快完成它的睡前故事
It's become my reward at the end of the day, something I really cherish.	现在变成了在一天结束时对我的奖励， 成为了我真的，真的很珍惜的事情。
And I have a kind of Hollywood ending to my talk this afternoon, which goes a little bit like this: a few months ago, I was getting ready to go on another book tour, and I had my bags packed.	我打算用一个好莱坞电影式的故事 结束我今天下午的演讲 大致是这样的： 几个月之前，我准备进行 新一轮新书外地宣传，行李都已经收拾好了。
I was downstairs by the front door, and I was waiting for a taxi, and my son came down the stairs and he'd made a card for me. And he was carrying it.	我就在楼下门口等计程车， 这时我儿子走下楼， 他正拿着为我做的一张卡片。
He'd gone and stapled two cards, very like these, together, and put a sticker of his favorite character, Tintin, on the front.	他把两张卡片钉在一块，就像这些， 而且贴了他最喜欢的人物贴纸 丁丁（漫画人物，职业是记者）在卡片上。
And he said to me, or he handed this to me, and I read it, and it said, "To Daddy, love Benjamin."	接着他对我说， 或者这么说，他把卡片递给我，接着我读到， 卡片上写着，"致爸爸，爱你的本杰明。"
And I thought, "Aw, that's really sweet.	我就想说，"啊，这真是太棒了，
Is that a good luck on the book tour card?"	这是不是一张祝我外出顺利的好运卡呢？"
And he said, "No, no, no, Daddy -- this is a card for being the best story reader in the world."	然而他说，"不，不是，不是，爸爸，这是一张 送给世界上故事讲得最好的人的卡片。"
And I thought, "Yeah, you know, this slowing down thing really does work."	接着我想，"看来放慢速度真他奶奶的管用啊。。。"
Thank you very much.	非常感谢在座各位。
I am a reformed marketer, and I now work in international development.	我是一个营销改革家 我现在致力于国际拓展
In October, I spent some time in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is the [second] largest country in Africa.	今年10月份，我在刚果民主共和国待了一段时间 它是非洲第二大的国家
In fact, it's as large as Western Europe, but it only has 300 miles of paved roads.	国土面积和西欧差不多 却只有300英里柏油路
The DRC is a dangerous place.	那是个危险的地方
In the past 10 years, five million people have died due to a war in the east.	近十年里，东部地区有500万人 死于战争
But war isn't the only reason that life is difficult in the DRC.	但是战争不是当地人 生活艰难的唯一原因
There are many health issues as well.	还有许多健康原因
In fact, the HIV prevalence rate is 1.3 percent among adults.	事实上，艾滋病在成人中的 患病率为1.3%
This might not sound like a large number, but in a country with 76 million people, it means there are 930,000 that are infected.	这听起来不是一个很大的比率 但在一个仅有7600万人的国家 就意味着93万人被感染
And due to the poor infrastructure, only 25 percent of those are receiving the life-saving drugs that they need.	加之基础设施又非常落后 因此只有25%的患者 可以获得所需的药物
Which is why, in part, donor agencies provide condoms at low or no cost.	这也是为什么 部分捐赠机构提供免费或低价的 避孕套
And so while I was in the DRC, I spent a lot of time talking to people about condoms, including Damien.	因此我在那里的时候 花了大量时间和人们讨论避孕套的话题 包括和达米安
Damien runs a hotel outside of Kinshasa.	达米安在金沙萨外经营着一家酒店
It's a hotel that's only open until midnight, so it's not a place that you stay.	它只营业到午夜 因此它不是一个过夜的地方
But it is a place where sex workers and their clients come.	但却是性工作者和其客户光顾的地方
Now Damien knows all about condoms, but he doesn't sell them.	达米安很了解避孕套 却不销售
He said there's just not in demand.	他说因为没什么需求
It's not surprising, because only three percent of people in the DRC use condoms.	这并不奇怪 因为只有3%的当地人使用 避孕套
Joseph and Christine, who run a pharmacy where they sell a number of these condoms, said despite the fact that donor agencies provide them at low or no cost, and they have marketing campaigns that go along with them, their customers don't buy the branded versions.	约瑟夫和克莉丝汀 经营着一家药房并且销售避孕套 他们说尽管捐赠机构提供免费或者价低价的避孕套 同时还进行宣传活动 但是他们的客户却不买有商标的
They like the generics.	他们喜欢没有品牌的
And as a marketer, I found that curious.	作为一名营销人员我对此很好奇
And so I started to look at what the marketing looked like.	因此我开始对营销进行观察
And it turns out that there are three main messages used by the donor agencies for these condoms: fear, financing and fidelity.	捐助机构在宣传他们的避孕套的时候 遵循三条主旨思想 恐惧，经济，忠诚
They name the condoms things like Vive, "to live" or Trust.	他们给避孕套起类似有活力的之类的名字 或信任
They package it with the red ribbon that reminds us of HIV, put it in boxes that remind you who paid for them, show pictures of your wife or husband and tell you to protect them or to act prudently.	他们用红丝带包装 警示我们艾滋病毒 把它放入这样的盒子中提醒你这是谁捐赠的 配有妻子或者丈夫的照片 告诉你要保护他们 或保持谨慎
Now these are not the kinds of things that someone is thinking about just before they go get a condom.	这些事情可不是一个人去买避孕套之前 所想的事情
What is it that you think about just before you get a condom?	那你们在得到避孕套前 都在想什么呢？
Sex!	性！
And the private companies that sell condoms in these places, they understand this.	在这些地区销售避孕套的私营公司 他们深知这一点
Their marketing is slightly different.	他们的营销策略稍有不同
The name might not be much different, but the imagery sure is.	名称也许没有太多不同 但是图标却不同
Some brands are aspirational, and certainly the packaging is incredibly provocative.	有些牌子目标远大 同时包装设计极富煽动性
And this made me think that perhaps the donor agencies had just missed out on a key aspect of marketing: understanding who's the audience.	这就启发我思考 也许捐助机构恰恰没抓住 营销学上的一个要点： 了解谁是你的客户
And for donor agencies, unfortunately, the audience tends to be people that aren't even in the country they're working [in].	遗憾的是，对于捐助机构来说 他们的客户 不是他们现在工作所在国的这些人
It's people back home, people that support their work, people like these.	是在后方的人 是赞助他们的人 是这些人们
But if what we're really trying to do is stop the spread of HIV, we need to think about the customer, the people whose behavior needs to change -- the couples, the young women, the young men -- whose lives depend on it.	但是如果我们真正要做的 是阻止艾滋病的传播 那么我们就要考虑到客户 考虑到那些需要改变其行为的人-- 夫妻 年轻妇女，青年男子-- 考虑到那些以此为生的人
And so the lesson is this: it doesn't really matter what you're selling; you just have to think about who is your customer, and what are the messages that are going to get them to change their behavior.	因此关键在于： 你卖的是什么东西并不重要 你要考虑的是谁是你的客户群 以及让他们做出改变 的原因是什么
It might just save their lives.	也许这样就能挽救他们的生命了。
Thank you.	谢谢
This is the skyline of my hometown, New Orleans.	这是我家乡新奥尔兰的天际线，
It was a great place to grow up, but it's one of the most vulnerable spots in the world.	这是一个适合长大的地方。 但这也是这世上最脆弱的地方之一，
Half the city is already below sea level.	一半的城市都已经低于海平面了。
In 2005, the world watched as New Orleans and the Gulf Coast were devastated by Hurricane Katrina.	在2005年，全世界目睹了 新奥尔兰 和墨西哥湾岸区被凯瑟琳台风所摧毁，
One thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six people died. Nearly 300,000 homes were lost.	一千八百三十四人不幸丧命，近三十万人流离失所。
These are my mother's, at the top -- although that's not her car, it was carried there by floodwaters up to the roof -- and that's my sister's, below.	在那上面，是我妈妈的屋子－ 尽管那不是她的车 那是被洪水带到上面的。 而下面的，则是我姐姐的
Fortunately, they and other family members got out in time, but they lost their homes, and as you can see, just about everything in them.	万幸的是，她们和其他家庭成员都及时逃生了 但是正如您所见，她们失去了自己的家园 和里面几乎一切
Other parts of the world have been hit by storms in even more devastating ways.	这个世界其余地方也遭遇暴风雨 甚至是以一种更毁灭性的方式。
In 2008, Cyclone Nargis and its aftermath killed 138,000 in Myanmar.	在2008年，飓风纳尔吉斯及其余波 使138,000缅甸人遇害。
Climate change is affecting our homes, our communities, our way of life. We should be preparing at every scale and at every opportunity.	气候变化正在影响着我们的家园，及社区 和我们的生活方式。我们需要准备好 面对任何规模，任何机会。
This talk is about being prepared for, and resilient to the changes that are coming and that will affect our homes and our collective home, the Earth.	这个话题使关于准备好，能时刻适应 即将来临的变化和其将为我们的家 和我们共同的家园：地球所带来的影响。
The changes in these times won't affect us all equally.	我们将面临的改变不会对每个人造成一样的影响。
There are important distributional consequences, and they're not what you always might think.	这里有很多重大的次生结果 并且可能与你一直所想的大相径庭。
In New Orleans, the elderly and female-headed households were among the most vulnerable.	在新奥尔兰，老年人和需要支撑起整个家庭的主妇们 是最脆弱的。
For those in vulnerable, low-lying nations, how do you put a dollar value on losing your country where you ancestors are buried? And where will your people go?	对于那些脆弱，无依无靠的人， 你怎能等同一美元和失去你的国家 那你祖先所居住的地方？而且你又能去哪儿呢？
And how will they cope in a foreign land?	再之他们又怎么适应新的地方？
Will there be tensions over immigration, or conflicts over competition for limited resources?	他们是否会因为移民而焦虑， 又或为了争夺匮乏的资源而争吵？
It's already fueled conflicts in Chad and Darfur.	这已曾在乍得共和国和苏尔富尔（位于苏丹，译者注）引起过冲突
Like it or not, ready or not, this is our future.	喜欢或不喜欢，准备好了或是没有，这 就是我们的未来。
Sure, some are looking for opportunities in this new world.	是的，有人在寻找新世界的机遇。
That's the Russians planting a flag on the ocean bottom to stake a claim for minerals under the receding Arctic sea ice.	那是俄罗斯在海底插上他们的国旗 去申明矿物所有权，在北极渐渐退去的冰底中
But while there might be some short-term individual winners, our collective losses will far outweigh them.	但是当这可能会有一些短期获利的同时 我们累计起的损失会远远超过这些。
Look no further than the insurance industry as they struggle to cope with mounting catastrophic losses from extreme weather events.	不要舍近求远，就像保险行业挣扎着 去赔偿灾难的损失 来源于恶劣的天气环境。
The military gets it. They call climate change a threat multiplier that could harm stability and security, while governments around the world are evaluating how to respond.	军队懂得了，他们把气候改变称为 一个威胁倍增器，它们可以威胁稳定和安全， 正当全世界的政府正在评估 如何去回应的时候。
So what can we do? How can we prepare and adapt?	所以，我们能做什么？我们如何准备并去适应？
I'd like to share three sets of examples, starting with adapting to violent storms and floods.	我想分享三个例子，开始于 适应猛烈的暴风雨和洪水。
In New Orleans, the I-10 Twin Spans, with sections knocked out in Katrina, have been rebuilt 21 feet higher to allow for greater storm surge.	在新奥尔南，1-10双拱桥 因其中一个被击垮，已经重建 高21码去适应更猛烈的浪潮。
And these raised and energy-efficient homes were developed by Brad Pitt and Make It Right for the hard-hit Ninth Ward.	和这些建得更高且高能效的房屋 是"布拉特皮特"和"使它变得更好"组织建立 为了有九级防御功能
The devastated church my mom attends has been not only rebuilt higher, it's poised to become the first Energy Star church in the country.	这个被摧毁了的教堂是我母亲过去常去的一个 不仅仅被建得更高了，而且还被建成了 这个国家的第一个一星能源教堂。
They're selling electricity back to the grid thanks to solar panels, reflective paint and more.	它们运输电源到输电网 基于太阳能面板和反光漆油以及其余东西。
Their March electricity bill was only 48 dollars.	他们二月份的电费仅仅是48美金。
Now these are examples of New Orleans rebuilding in this way, but better if others act proactively with these changes in mind.	现在这些是新奥尔南重建过程中的案例们 但是如果别人能够提前设想这些措施就更好了。
For example, in Galveston, here's a resilient home that survived Hurricane Ike, when others on neighboring lots clearly did not.	举个例子，在加尔维斯顿有一个弹性结构房 从飓风中得以幸存 当它周围的建筑都很明显被摧毁殆尽。
And around the world, satellites and warning systems are saving lives in flood-prone areas such as Bangladesh.	与此同时在世界各地，卫星和报警系统 正在从像孟加拉国这样的低洼地区拯救生命
But as important as technology and infrastructure are, perhaps the human element is even more critical.	但是就像技术和基础设施一样重要 人为因素可能更为重要。
We need better planning and systems for evacuation.	我们需要更好的疏散计划和系统。
We need to better understand how people make decisions in times of crisis, and why.	我们需要透彻地理解人们如何做决定 当他们面临危机时刻，而且为什么。
While it's true that many who died in Katrina did not have access to transportation, others who did refused to leave as the storm approached, often because available transportation and shelters refused to allow them to take their pets.	虽然真相是很多凯瑟琳台风遇害者都未能使用交通工具 而有机会使用交通工具的却在暴风雨来临时拒绝离开 常常是因为可使用的交通工具和避难所 都拒绝允许他们带上自己的宠物
Imagine leaving behind your own pet in an evacuation or a rescue.	想象一下无法撤离和营救你自己的宠物。
Fortunately in 2006, Congress passed the Pet Evacuation and Transportation Standards Act — it spells "PETS" — to change that.	但幸运的是在2006年，国会通过了 宠物撤离及运输标准法案 －添上了"宠物" －从而改变了之前的情形
Second, preparing for heat and drought.	第二点，为和高温和干旱做好准备
Farmers are facing challenges of drought from Asia to Africa, from Australia to Oklahoma, while heat waves linked with climate change have killed tens of thousands of people in Western Europe in 2003, and again in Russia in 2010.	农民们正面临着旱灾的挑战，从亚洲 到非洲,从澳洲到俄克拉荷马州 与此同时高温热浪和气候变化紧紧相连 已经杀死了成千上万的人 在2003年在西欧，和2010年的俄罗斯。
In Ethiopia, 70 percent, that's 7-0 percent of the population, depends on rainfall for its livelihood.	在埃塞俄比亚百分之七十，是百分之七－十的人口 依靠降雨来维持他们的生活。
Oxfam and Swiss Re, together with Rockefeller Foundation, are helping farmers like this one build hillside terraces and find other ways to conserve water, but they're also providing for insurance when the droughts do come.	牛津饥荒救济委员会和瑞士再保险公司与洛克菲勒基金会携手 共同帮助像他一样农民们建造山坡梯田 和找寻其余的方法保存用水 但当旱灾来临的时候他们也提供保险赔偿
The stability this provides is giving the farmers the confidence to invest.	这让那些农民坚定了 投资的信心。
It's giving them access to affordable credit.	向他们提供可负担的贷款。
It's allowing them to become more productive so that they can afford their own insurance over time, without assistance.	这使他们变得更加多产 随着时间过去有能力自给自足，从而不需要赞助。
It's a virtuous cycle, and one that could be replicated throughout the developing world.	这是一个良性循环，而且是可以在 发展中国家广泛使用的。
After a lethal 1995 heat wave turned refrigerator trucks from the popular Taste of Chicago festival into makeshift morgues, Chicago became a recognized leader, tamping down on the urban heat island impact through opening cooling centers, outreach to vulnerable neighborhoods, planting trees, creating cool white or vegetated green roofs.	在致命的1995热浪中 让冷藏车从芝加哥节日流行口味 变成了停尸房。 芝加哥变成了广为人知的领导者， 迈出了城市热岛效应 借助于开放避暑中心 到到脆弱的郊区，种植树木 建立凉爽的或者植物覆盖的屋顶。
This is City Hall's green roof, next to Cook County's [portion of the] roof, which is 77 degrees Fahrenheit hotter at the surface.	这座市政厅的绿色屋顶， 较为内部温度，表面温度高77华氏度
Washington, D.C., last year, actually led the nation in new green roofs installed, and they're funding this in part thanks to a five-cent tax on plastic bags.	华盛顿在去年实际上带领了这个国家 建立绿色屋顶，而他们也通过 5分钱的塑料袋税收来为这项工程提供资金。
They're splitting the cost of installing these green roofs with home and building owners.	他们同时与家庭和建筑所有者 共同分担建设绿色屋顶的费用。
The roofs not only temper urban heat island impact but they save energy, and therefore money, the emissions that cause climate change, and they also reduce stormwater runoff.	这种屋顶不仅能调节城市热岛效应 同时还能节约能源，金钱 以及减少温室气体 同时也能起到排水效果。
So some solutions to heat can provide for win-win-wins.	因此有些解决酷暑的手段能够带来双赢
Third, adapting to rising seas.	第三点，适应海平面上升
Sea level rise threatens coastal ecosystems, agriculture, even major cities. This is what one to two meters of sea level rise looks like in the Mekong Delta.	海平面上升威胁沿海地区生态，农业系统 甚至主要城市。这是一 两米左右 海平面上升在湄公河看起来的样子
That's where half of Vietnam's rice is grown.	那里是越南一半粮食的产地。
Infrastructure is going to be affected.	基础设施将会被影响。
Airports around the world are located on the coast.	通往全世界的机场就建立在这里
It makes sense, right? There's open space, the planes can take off and land without worrying about creating noise or avoiding tall buildings.	这很合理，对吧？因为这里是一片空地 飞机可以起飞降落而不用担心 产生噪音或去躲避高楼大厦。
Here's just one example, San Francisco Airport, with 16 inches or more of flooding.	这里只是一个例子，旧金山机场， 受16英尺左右的洪水泛滥袭击。
Imagine the staggering cost of protecting this vital infrastructure with levees.	想像一下用于保护 重要基础设施的堤坝的费用。
But there might be some changes in store that you might not imagine. For example, planes require more runway for takeoff because the heated, less dense air, provides for less lift.	但是与此同时可能有 你不能预测的变化。比如， 飞机需要更多的跑道去起飞， 因为高温，不稠密的空气，不能提供足够的升力。
San Francisco is also spending 40 million dollars to rethink and redesign its water and sewage treatment, as water outfall pipes like this one can be flooded with seawater, causing backups at the plant, harming the bacteria that are needed to treat the waste.	旧金山还花费四千万美元 去反思和重建下水道处理系统。 因为像这样的排水渠口也可能被海水淹没， 从而危害植物，滋生细菌。 需要建立设施来处理这些浪费。
So these outfall pipes have been retrofitted to shut seawater off from entering the system.	因此需要更新这些排水管道 防止海水进入排水系统。
Beyond these technical solutions, our work at the Georgetown Climate Center with communities encourages them to look at what existing legal and policy tools are available and to consider how they can accommodate change.	除了这些技术层面的措施意外，我们位于 乔治城气候中心和社区共同工作 鼓励他们参考现存的法律和政策 并且考虑如何才能适应变化。
For example, in land use, which areas do you want to protect, through adding a seawall, for example, alter, by raising buildings, or retreat from, to allow the migration of important natural systems, such as wetlands or beaches?	譬如，用地，哪片地区你想要 通过用建设防波堤的方式去保护，再比方 通过升高建筑，或向后搬迁 去允许重要的自然系统迁徙 比方说湿地或者沙滩？
Other examples to consider. In the U.K., the Thames Barrier protects London from storm surge.	这里同时有其余的例子，在英国， 泰晤士河保护伦敦免遭于风暴潮袭击。
The Asian Cities Climate [Change] Resilience Network is restoring vital ecosystems like forest mangroves.	亚洲城市气候变迁韧性组织 正在修复类似于红树林的重要的生态系统。
These are not only important ecosystems in their own right, but they also serve as a buffer to protect inland communities.	这些生态系统不仅仅是本身是重要的 而且同时充当了缓冲区的作用来保护内陆地区。
New York City is incredibly vulnerable to storms, as you can see from this clever sign, and to sea level rise, and to storm surge, as you can see from the subway flooding.	纽约在暴风雨面前显得十分脆弱， 就想你在这块指示牌上看到的一样，纽约同时也经不住海平面上升 和暴风雨，正如你从这幅纽约地铁涨水图中看见的一样。
But back above ground, these raised ventilation grates for the subway system show that solutions can be both functional and attractive. In fact, in New York, San Francisco and London, designers have envisioned ways to better integrate the natural and built environments with climate change in mind.	但是当我们返回到地面，这些上升的地铁通风格栏 系统提醒我们措施可以同时 是有功能效应且引人注意的。事实上，纽约 旧金山和伦敦，设计师们已经设想出了 能更加契合自然并且 兼顾应对自然变化的建设方法。
I think these are inspiring examples of what's possible when we feel empowered to plan for a world that will be different.	我认为这些设想都是十分打动人心的例子 ，让我们认为自己有能力去改变这个世界。
But now, a word of caution.	但是现在，请谨记着
Adaptation's too important to be left to the experts.	对这些专家而言适应也是十分重要的。
Why? Well, there are no experts.	为什么？因为就没有所谓的专家。
We're entering uncharted territory, and yet our expertise and our systems are based on the past.	我们正在进入一个全新的领域，而目前为止 我们的专长和系统都仅仅是建立于过去的。
"Stationarity" is the notion that we can anticipate the future based on the past, and plan accordingly, and this principle governs much of our engineering, our design of critical infrastructure, city water systems, building codes, even water rights and other legal precedents.	"平稳"是我们将使用于未来的准则 基于经验，同时随机应变， 与此同时，这也是一个领导我们当今工程 当今设计核心基础设施，城市排水系统， 建筑规范，甚至用水权以及其余判例的词。
But we can simply no longer rely on established norms.	但是我们在也不能仅仅依靠建立规范了。
We're operating outside the bounds of CO2 concentrations that the planet has seen for hundreds of thousands of years.	我们已经超如了地球上已经恪守了成千上万年 的二氧化碳浓度限制。
The larger point I'm trying to make is this.	我在这里想说的是
It's up to us to look at our homes and our communities, our vulnerabilities and our exposures to risk, and to find ways to not just survive, but to thrive, and it's up to us to plan and to prepare and to call on our government leaders and require them to do the same, even while they address the underlying causes of climate change.	这是我们的责任去照顾我们的家园和社会 我们的脆弱且易暴露于危险之中的家园。 不仅仅是去找寻一个生存的办法，而是一个繁荣兴旺的办法。 而且这是我们的责任去规划和准备 和提醒我们的政府领导并且要求他们 去做同样的事，即便与此同时他们正在 强调潜伏的气候变化原因。
There are no quick fixes.	这没有权宜之计。
There are no one-size-fits-all solutions.	这里没有完全之策。
We're all learning by doing.	我们只有从实践中学习。
But the operative word is doing.	关键词是做去，去实践。
Thank you.	谢谢。
I'm going to present three projects in rapid fire.	我将快速地展示三件作品
I don't have much time to do it.	我时间不多
And I want to reinforce three ideas with that rapid-fire presentation.	并且我想通过快速的展示来强化这三件作品的概念
The first is what I like to call a hyper-rational process.	第一件作品我将它的设计称之为高度理性主义
It's a process that takes rationality almost to an absurd level, and it transcends all the baggage that normally comes with what people would call, sort of, a rational conclusion to something.	它几乎 已经理性到了荒唐的境界 它已经超过了 人们通常可以接受的 理性的程度
And it concludes in something that you see here, that you actually wouldn't expect as being the result of rationality.	它包含了一些你看得见 但却想不到是理性主义的 一些元素
The second -- the second is that this process does not have a signature.	第二件 这第二件作品 并没有署名
There is no authorship. Architects are obsessed with authorship.	我们不知作者是谁，而通常建筑师很乐于署名
This is something that has editing and it has teams.	通常以团队形式
In fact, we no longer see, within this process, the traditional master architect creating a sketch that his minions carry out.	事实上我们在这件作品中看不到 传统建筑大师的创造 而只是他的助手画出的草图
And the third is that it challenges -- and this is, in the length of this, very hard to support why, connect all these things -- but it challenges the high modernist notion of flexibility.	第三个，有点难度 以它的长度，很难把所有这些 连接在一起 但它挑战了最现代意义上的灵活性
High modernists said, we will create sort of singular spaces that are generic.	现代主义认为，我们创造 一种共有的单一空间
Almost anything can happen within them.	几乎所有的事都能在那里发生
I call it sort of "shotgun flexibility."	我把它称为射击的灵活性
Turn your head this way; shoot; and you're bound to kill something.	把你的头转向这边，射击，你一定会打中目标
So, this is the promise of high modernism: within a single space, actually, any kind of activity can happen.	这就是现代主义的预示 在单一空间里，所有的事都可能发生
But as we're seeing, operational costs are starting to dwarf capital costs in terms of design parameters.	但正如我们看见的 对于设计而言 运转费用超过了资本成本
And so, with this sort of idea, what happens is, whatever actually is in the building on opening day, or whatever seems to be the most immediate need, starts to dwarf the possibility and sort of subsume it, of anything else could ever happen.	一旦有了这种想法 所有正在建造中的 或者所有看似最急迫的需求 都会阻止想法的落实 以及最后设计成果的诞生
And so we're proposing a different kind of flexibility, something that we call "compartmentalized flexibility."	所以我们提出一种不一样的灵活性 我们称之为 "分类的灵活性"
And the idea is that you, within that continuum, identify a series of points, and you design specifically to them.	大致的概念就像 你连续地确认一系列点，并对它们进行设计
They can be pushed off-center a little bit, but in the end you actually still get as much of that original spectrum as you originally had hoped.	它们会有点偏离中心 但最后你还是会得到 和你最初想要的类似的效果
With high modernist flexibility, that doesn't really work.	而现代主义的灵活性，这点却不能成立
Now I'm going to talk about -- I'm going to build up the Seattle Central Library in this way before your eyes in about five or six diagrams, and I truly mean this is the design process that you'll see.	现在我来谈一下，我打算建造西雅图中央图书馆 你们可以看到五六个图表 这就是你们将看到的设计过程
With the library staff and the library board, we settled on two core positions.	我们同图书馆委员会及工作人员一起 确定了两个核心设置
This is the first one, and this is showing, over the last 900 years, the evolution of the book and other technologies.	这是第一个，它显示了，在过去900年里， 书和其他技术的进化过程
This diagram was our sort of position piece about the book, and our position was, books are technology -- that's something people forget -- but it's a form of technology that will have to share its dominance with any other form of truly potent technology or media.	这图代表了我们对书的定位 书本就是技术 许多人忘了这点 但是我们需要借助其他技术或媒介 才能分享书的影响力
The second premise -- and this was something that was very difficult for us to convince the librarians of at first -- is that libraries, since the inception of Carnegie Library tradition in America, had a second responsibility, and that was for social roles.	第二个预设，这个很难， 我们花了很大力气去说服图书管理员 它们自从 美国卡耐基图书馆的传统开始 就承担了一种第二性的社会责任
OK, now, this I'll come back to later, but something, actually, the librarians at first said, "No, this isn't our mandate.	好了，现在，我们稍候再说这个，但是 那些图书管理员一开始会说："不，这不是我们要管的"
Our mandate is media, and particularly the book."	我们管的是媒介，尤其是书
So what you're seeing now is actually the design of the building.	所以你现在看到的其实是建筑的设计
The upper diagram is what we had seen in a whole host of contemporary libraries that used high modernist flexibility.	上面的图表 是我们在整个当代图书馆里看到的 它们运用到了现代主义的灵活性
Sort of, any activity could happen anywhere.	就是那种，任何事在任何地方都可能发生的
We don't know the future of the library; we don't know the future of the book; and so we'll use this approach.	我们不知道图书馆的未来，也不知道书的未来 所以我们用这个方法
And what we saw were buildings that were very generic.	我们看到的建筑千人一面
And, worse, not only did we see buildings that were very generic -- so, not only does the reading room look like the copy room look like the magazine area -- but it meant that whatever issue was troubling the library at that moment was starting to engulf every other activity that was happening in it.	更糟的是并不只是看上去非常相似 不只是阅览室和文印室 或者和杂志区长得差不多 更重要的是它意味着 所有图书馆里发生的事 都会相互干扰相互影响
And in this case, what was getting engulfed were these social responsibilities by the expansion of the book.	在这种情况下 书的社会责任之延伸将得不到发挥
And so we proposed what's at the lower diagram.	所以我们提出了下面的这个图
Very dumb approach: simply compartmentalize. Put those things whose evolution we could predict -- and I don't mean that we could say whatever would actually happen in the future, but we have some certainty of the spectrum of whatever would happen in the future -- put those in boxes designed specifically for it, and put the things that we can't predict on the rooftops.	很土的办法 简化分类，将这些我们可以预料的事 我并不是说我们可以预测未来发生什么 但是我们很确信有这种 未来发生的可能性 把这些东西放在一个专门设计的盒子里 而把那些无法预测的放在屋顶
So that was the core idea.	这就是核心思想
Now, we had to convince the library that social roles was equally important to media in order to get them to accept this.	现在，为了让图书管理员认识到这一点 我们必须说服他们 社会责任和媒介的作用一样重要
What you're seeing here is actually their program on the left.	你现在看到的左边的是他们的程序
That's as it was given to us in all of its clarity and glory.	和我们拿到它时一样的色彩鲜艳
Our first operation was to re-digest it back to them, show it to them and say, "You know what? We haven't touched it, but only one-third of your own program is dedicated to media and books.	我们的第一步是重新组合它们 回去跟他们说 "你们知道吗，我们一点都没动过 但你们的程序只有1/3是和媒介及书有关的
Two-thirds of it is already dedicated -- that's the white band below -- the thing you said isn't important -- is already dedicated to social functions."	而剩下的三分之二，就是下面的白色部分 你们说它不重要的 已经起到了社会功能
So, once we had presented that back to them, they agreed that this sort of core concept could work.	所以，一旦我们把这个重新给他们看 他们同意这种核心概念能有效
We got the right to go back to first principles -- that's the third diagram. We recombined everything.	我们可以回到最重要的 第三个图表，我们把一切重新组合
And then we started making new decisions.	然后我们开始做新的决定
What you're seeing on the right is the design of the library, specifically in terms of square footage.	你们看到的右边是对图书馆的设计 尤其是面积空间上
On the left of that diagram, here, you'll see a series of five platforms -- sort of combs, collective programs.	左边，这里 你会看见 一系列的五个平台 梳理整合好的程序
And on the right are the more indeterminate spaces; things like reading rooms, whose evolution in 20, 30, 40 years we can't predict.	而右边不确定的空间 比如阅览室 我们无法判断它未来20，30，40年的发展
So that literally was the design of the building.	所以这就是初步的设计
They signed it, and to their chagrin, we came back a week later, and we presented them this.	他们签字同意了，但让他们懊恼的是 一个星期以后，我们回来，向他们展示了这个
OK? And, as you can see, it is literally the diagram on the right.	你可以看到，这和那个图表面上看很契合
OK? We just sized -- no, really, I mean that, literally.	我们只是 噢，我说真的，表面上看
The things on the -- on the left-hand side of the diagram, those are the boxes.	左边这些 就像图上的，是盒子
We sized them into five compartments.	我们把他们放进了五个部分
They're super-efficient. We had a very low budget to work with.	超级高效，我们预算很低
We pushed them around on the site to make very literal contextual relationships.	我们就这样建造 非常清楚的上下关系
The reading room should be able to see the water.	从阅览室里可以看到下面的水
The main entrance should have a public plaza in front of it to abide by the zoning code, and so forth.	主入口前有一个广场 遵守区域编号，排列
So, you see the five platforms -- those are the boxes -- within each one a very discrete thing is happening.	你可以看到五个平台 五个盒子，每个专供一项特殊的用途
The area in between is sort of an urban continuum, these things that we can't predict their evolution to the same degree.	而中间是现代化的联结 这些我们无法预料未来发展进度的
To give you some sense of the power of this idea, the biggest block is what we call the book spiral.	为了向你们展现这种想法的强大力量 最大的这一块我们称之为书螺旋
It's literally built in a very inexpensive way -- it is a parking garage for books.	很简单，造价也不贵 它就像一个"停书场"
It just so happens to be in the sixth through 10th floor of the building, but that is not necessarily an expensive approach.	从6楼到10楼 但并不贵
And it allows us to organize the entire Dewey decimal system on one continuous run: no matter how it grows or contracts within the building, it will always have its clarity to end the sort of trail of tears that we've all experienced in public libraries.	它使得我们可以连续地使用杜威十进制图书排列法 无论书的数量怎样扩张 还是可以整理得很清楚 我们以前都曾对公共图书馆很无语 经常找不到书
And so this was the final operation, which was to take these blocks as they were all pushed off kilter, and to hold onto them with a skin.	而最后一步就是把这些楼层 整合在一起 设计一个漂亮的外观
That skin serves double duty, again for economics.	这个外观必须有两层作用
One, it is the lateral stability for the entire building; it is a structural element. But its dimensions were designed not only for structure, but also for holding on every piece of glass.	第一，维持整个建筑横向的稳定 这是结构层面的，但它的作用不仅在于此 它还必须保证所有玻璃的安装
The glass was then -- I'll just use the word impregnated -- but it had a layer of metal that was called "stressed metal."	使得玻璃融合一体 但它有所谓的一层受力金属
That metal acts as a micro louver, so from the exterior of the building the sun sees it as totally opaque, but from the interior it's entirely transparent.	就像微型天窗 隔离外部的阳光 却能保持室内光线通透
So, now I'm going to take you on a tour of the building.	现在，我将带你们领略一下这个建筑
Let's see if I can find it. For anyone who is -- gets motion sickness, I apologize.	我来找找看 抱歉
So this is the building.	这就是那幢建筑
And I think what's important is, when we first unveiled the building, the public thought -- saw it as being totally about our whim and ego.	我认为重要的是，当我们首次展示这个建筑 公众普遍认为 这只是我们一时的野心和兴致
And it was defended, believe it or not, by the librarians. They said, "Look, we don't know what it is, but we know it's everything that we need it to be based on the observations that we've done about the program."	但信不信由你们，这个建筑得到了图书管理员们的拥护 他们说："我们不知这是啥， 但根据我们观察 它有了我们需要的一切"
This is going into one of the entries.	这是个入口
So it's an unusual building for a public library, obviously.	这是个很特别的公共图书馆 很显然
So now we're going into what we call the reading room -- sorry, living room.	我们去看一下阅览室，错了，是大厅
This is actually a program that we invented with the library.	这其实是我们发明的一个空间
It was recognizing that public libraries are the last vestige of public free space.	将图书馆作为 一个公众的自由空间
There are plenty of shopping malls that allow you to get out of the rain in downtown Seattle, but there are not so many free places that allow you to get out of the rain.	在西雅图市中心 有许多购物广场，你避雨的时候可以去 但却没有多少 自由空间让你避雨
So this was an unprogrammed area where people could pretty much do anything, including eat, yell, play chess and so forth.	而这就是一个人们可以做很多事的空间 包括吃，叫喊，下棋等等
Now we're moving up into what we call the mixing chamber.	现在我们往上 这是一个混合区
That was the main sort of technology area in the building.	也是整座建筑的主体
You'll have to tell me if I'm going too fast for you.	如果我走得太快，你们可以提出
Now up.	现在上来
This is actually the place that we put into the building so I could propose to my wife. Right there.	这个其实是我们特地设计的 好让我向我妻子求婚，就是这里
She said yes.	她答应了
I'm running out of time, so I'm actually going to stop.	我快没时间了，所以就此打住
I can show this to you later.	我可以晚些再向你们展示
But let's see if I can very quickly get into the book spiral, because I think it's, as I said, the most -- this is the main reading room -- the most unique part of the building.	但我们试试看能不能快点看一下书螺旋 因为我觉得它是最…… 这是主阅览室，书螺旋是整座建筑最独特的地方
You dizzy yet?	你们晕了吗？
OK, so here, this is the book spiral.	好，这就是书螺旋
So, it's very indiscernible, but it's actually a continuous stair stepping.	看不清 但实际上它是不断在上升
It allows you to, on one city block, go up one full floor, so that it's on a continuum.	让你在一层楼 不断连续地向上
OK, now I'm going to go back, and so I'm going to hit a second project.	好，现在我们谈谈第二个作品
I'm going to go very, very quickly through this.	我会很快
Now this is the Dallas Theater. It was an unusual client for us, because they came to us and they said, "We need you to do a new building. We've been working in a temporary space for 30 years, but because of that temporary space, we've become an infamous theater company.	这是达拉斯剧院，我们一个很特别的客户 因为他们来找我们，说 我们需要你们建一栋新楼 我们已经在临时房里工作了30年 就是因为那临时房 我们的剧院公司臭名昭著
Theater is really focused in New York, Chicago and Seattle, with the exception of the Dallas Theater Company."	我们的剧院主要针对纽约，芝加哥，西雅图 这是我们达拉斯剧院公司的一些期望"
And the very fact that they worked on a provisional space meant that for Beckett they could blow out a wall; they could do "Cherry Orchard" and blow a hole through the floor, and so forth.	而他们在临时性场地工作的事实 说明他们可以随便弄垮一面墙 或者像樱桃园一样在地上挖洞，等等
So it was a very daunting task for us to do a brand-new building that could keep the -- be a pristine building, but keep this kind of experimental nature.	所以要为他们造一幢新楼对我们是一项令人畏惧的工作 要保持完好无损的外表 又要允许他们在里面做各种试验性的事
And the second is, they were what we call a multi-form theater: they do different kinds of performances in repertory.	第二点是，这家公司是我们常说的 多功能剧院 他们安排各种剧目的表演
So they in the morning will do something in arena, then they'll do something in proscenium and so forth.	比如早上， 他们会安排竞技场表演 然后还有些幕前表演等等
And so they needed to be able to quickly transform between different theater organizations, and for operational budget reasons, this actually no longer happens in pretty much any multi-form theater in the United States, so we needed to figure out a way to overcome that.	所以他们需要很快地 在各种剧目间转换 而由于预算 现在一般的美国剧院公司 都不做这种形式 因此我们要想法克服这一点
So our thought was to literally put the theater on its head: to take those things that were previously defined as front-of-house and back-of-house and stack them -- above house and below house -- and to create sort of what we started to call a theater machine.	所以我们的想法是把剧院放在前面 然后把前面说的这些分为前部和后部 以及上部和下部 把它建成一个剧院机器
We invest the money in the operation of the building.	我们投钱进去
It's almost as though the building could be placed anywhere: wherever you place it, the area underneath it is charged for theatrical performances.	所有的钱都会通过剧院的演出 得到回报
And it allowed us to go back to first principles, and redefine fly tower, acoustic enclosure, light enclosure and so forth.	这让我们回到最初 重新设计舞台塔，音箱 灯光等
And at the push of a button, it allows the artistic director to move between proscenium thrust and, in fact, arena and traverse and flat floor in a very quick transfiguration.	同时，只要一按键 艺术导演就可以在舞台，竞技场 之间穿梭 这是一种很快的转换
So in fact, we can go, using operational budget, we can -- sorry, capital cost -- we can actually achieve what was no longer achievable in operational cost.	所以事实上，用那些运营成本 抱歉，是资本成本，我们可以达到 难以置信的效果
And that means that the artistic director now has a palette that he or she can choose from between a series of forms and a series of processions, because that enclosure around the theater that is normally trapped with front-of-house and back-of-house spaces has been liberated.	这意味着艺术导演 现在可以选择 不同表演方式 由于剧院设计的关系 原本孤立的前后部得以贯通 空间得到了有效的利用
So an artistic director has the ability to show -- have a performance that enters in a Wagnerian procession, shows the first act in thrust, the intermission in a Greek procession, second act in arena, and so forth.	艺术导演可以 表演一出瓦格纳的戏 然后把它改变成 希腊的过渡场景 再到竞技场表演第二幕，等等
So I'm going to show you what this actually means.	我现在要展示给你们看，这到底意味着什么
This is the theater up close.	这就是剧院
Any portion around the theater actually can be opened discretely.	其实周围的每一部分都可以秘密打开
The light enclosure can be lifted separate to the acoustic enclosure, so you can do Beckett with Dallas as the backdrop.	照明可以分开 这些都拿掉你可以演贝克纳 把达拉斯作为背景
Portions can be opened, so you can now actually have motorcycles drive directly into the performance, or you can even just have an open-air performance, or for intermissions.	周围打开，你可以让摩托车进去 直接上舞台，甚至可以由开放式的表演 或者是便于转场
The balconies all move to go between those configurations, but they also disappear.	这些结构中的所有包厢都可以移动 或者拿掉
The proscenium line can also disappear.	幕前部分也可以拿掉
You can bring enormous objects in, so in fact their -- the Dallas Theater Company -- their first show will be a play about Charles Lindbergh, and they'll want to bring in [a] real aircraft.	你可以搬来巨大的东西，事实上 达拉斯剧院的第一场秀 是关于查尔斯·林德伯格的 他们将搬来真的飞行器
And then it also provides them, in the off-season, the ability to actually rent out their space for entirely different things.	这也让他们 在非演出季的时候 可以把场地租出去
This is it at night -- sorry, from a distance.	这是夜晚，抱歉，远处看
Open up entire portions for different kinds of events.	把所用部分都打开，准备不同的活动
And at night.	这是在晚上
Again, remove the light enclosure; keep the acoustic enclosure.	一样的，去掉灯光，保留声音
This is a monster truck show.	可以演鬼片
I'm going to show now the last project.	现在我将要展示最后一件作品
This also is an unusual client.	也是一个特别的客户
They inverted the whole idea of development.	他们颠覆了整个发展的思路
They came to us and they said -- unlike normal developers -- they said, "We want to start out by providing a contemporary art museum in Louisville. That's our main goal."	和一般的开发商不同，他们过来跟我们说 "我们想从 当代艺术馆开始" 在路易斯维尔，这就是我们主要的目标"
And so instead of being a developer that sees an opportunity to make money, they saw an ability to be a catalyst in their downtown.	和一般开发商看到赚钱的机会不同 他们希望在市中心 制造一些刺激因素
And the fact that they wanted to support the contemporary art museum actually built their pro forma, so they worked in reverse.	他们建立起一种预期 来支持当代艺术 并且为此奋斗
And that pro forma led us to a mixed-use building that was very large in order to support their aspirations of the art, but it also opened up opportunities for the art itself to collaborate, interact with commercial spaces that actually artists more and more want to work within.	而那种预期 引导我们建造一幢很大的多功能建筑 可以支持他们的艺术灵感 同时为艺术本身提供机会 与商业空间整合，互动 这才是现代艺术家期望的工作环境
And it also charged us with thinking about how to have something that was both a single building and a credible sort of sub-building.	这也迫使我们去思考 如何把两种功能 融合在一幢建筑里
So now I'm going to -- this is Louisville's skyline -- and I'm going to take you through various constraints that led to the project.	现在我将，这是路易斯维尔的地平线 我将带你们穿过 各种各样的限制去看到这个项目
First: the physical constraints. We actually had to operate on three discrete sites, all of them well, well smaller than the size of the building.	首先，空间上的限制 事实上我们要在三个分散的点之间建造 而它们在体积上都比这建筑小
We had to operate next to the new Muhammad Ali center, and respect it.	首先，是新的爱立中心 我们必须在风格上与它协调
We had to operate within the 100-year floodplain.	必须建造在100年漫滩的范围内
Now, this area floods three to four times a year, and there's a levee behind our site similar to the ones that broke in New Orleans.	现在这块地方，每三到四年犯一次洪水 我们选址的后面还有一码头 和新奥尔良损坏的那个很相似
Have to operate behind the I-64 corridor, a street that cuts through the middle of these separate sites.	我们必须在I-64长廊后施工 这条街把地分割成几部分
So these -- we're starting to build a sort of nightmare of constraints in a bathtub.	所有的这些…… 简直是灾难
Underneath the bathtub are the city's main power lines.	这块地下面 有城市的主要电线
And there is a pedestrian corridor that they wanted to add that would link a series of cultural buildings, and a view corridor -- because this is the historic district -- that they didn't want to obstruct with the new building.	他们想在那里建一条徒步走廊 可以将周围的建筑连成一体 同时这也是一条景观走道 由于这是历史区，他们不希望被新房子挡住
And now we're going to add 1.1 million square feet.	现在我们将扩建1100万平方英尺
And if we did the traditional thing, that 1.1 million square feet -- these are the different programs -- the traditional thing would be to identify the public elements, place them on sites, and now we'd have a really terrible situation: a public thing in the middle of a bathtub that floods.	如果我们按常规做法 当然这个项目会有不同 传统的做法就是识别一些公共元素，保持不动 这样就会有一个很糟的结果 会出现整体和谐中的突兀
And then we would size all the other elements -- the different commercial elements: hotel, luxury housing, offices and so forth -- and dump it on top. And we would create something that was unviable.	然后我们会安排其他的一些元素 一些商业元素 酒店，奢侈住房，办公楼等 这些建筑会在上层 我们的这些建筑无法独立存在
In fact -- and you know this -- this is called the Time Warner building.	事实上，就像时代华纳大楼
So our strategy was very simple.	我们的战略非常简单
Just lift the entire block, flip some of the elements over, reposition them so they have appropriate views and relationships to downtown, and make circulation connections and reroute the road.	把整个街区向上提升 把一些建筑重新组合 使它们看起来更协调，关系更紧密 改变建筑间的关系以及道路的排列
So that's the basic concept, and now I'm going to show you what it leads to.	好了，这是基本的概念 现在我想你们展示它的效果
OK, it seems a very formal, willful gesture, but something derived entirely out of the constraints.	好的，它看上去是一个有力的象征 完全超出一般的限制
And again, when we unveiled it, there was a sort of nervousness that this was about an architect making a statement, not an architect who was attempting to solve a series of problems.	一样的是，当它被揭幕时，也面临了种种质疑 这就像建筑师作了一个声明 却不去解决问题 有一系列的问题
Now, within that center zone, as I said, we have the ability to mix a series of things.	现在，正如我说的，我们有能力 在那片中心区域组合一系列的事
So here you can see that these -- this -- sort of an x-ray -- the towers are totally developer-driven. They told us the dimensions, the sizes and so forth and we focused on taking all the public components -- the lobbies, the bars, everything that the different commercial elements would have -- and combined it in the center, in the sort of subway map, in the transfer zone that would also include the contemporary art museum.	所以你们可以看到这些 这些，这塔就像x射线 这些都是由发展商决定的，他们告诉我们面积的标准 而我们主要关注公共元素 大厅，酒吧， 所有关于商业的 并把他们在中心整合，就像四通八达的地铁图 在过渡区域由当代博物馆
So it creates a situation like this, where you have artists who can operate within an art space that also has an amazing view on the 22nd floor, but it also has proximity that the curator can either open or close.	所以大致就是这个样子 我们有艺术家在里面工作 22楼的艺术空间有惊人的视野 但是馆长可以选择 是否开放这一区域
It allows people on exercise bicycles to be seen or to see the art, and so forth.	人们可以在那里骑自行车锻炼 观赏艺术，或成为艺术的一部分等
It also means that if an artist wants to invade something like a swimming pool, they can begin to do their exhibition in a swimming pool, so they're not forced to always work within the confines of a contemporary gallery space.	如果有的艺术家很想尝试游泳池这样的空间 在这里他们可以在游泳池内进行展览 这与一般的当代艺术相比 使他们不用再恪守固定的局限
So, how to build this.	所以，怎么造这个
It's very simple: it's a chair.	很简单，这是一张椅子
So, we begin by building the cores.	我们先开始建造主体部分
As we're building the cores, we build the contemporary art museum at grade.	同时也建造当代艺术博物馆
That allows us to have incredible efficiency and cost efficiency.	这会使得我们非常高效，也很省钱
This is not a high-budget building.	这幢建筑预算并不高
The moment the cores get to mid level, we finish the art museum; we put all the mechanical equipment in it; and then we jack it up into the air.	当主体物分建到中层时 艺术博物馆封顶，开始安装机械设备 然后在这里建个平面
This is how they build really large aircraft hangars, for instance, the ones that they did for the A380.	他们也是这样造大型飞机库的 比如他们为空客A380早的
Finish the cores, finish the meat and you get something that looks like this.	主体框架搭建完成后开始填充血肉 然后你们可以看到就像这个
Now I only have about 30 seconds, so I want to start an animation, and we'll conclude with that. Thank you.	现在我大概只有30秒，我马上开始 一个动画片，我们将以此结束
Chris asked me to add -- the theater is under construction, and this project will start construction in about a year, and finish in 2010.	掌声 Chris希望我加几句 剧院正在建造 而这个工程将在大约一年后开工 2010年完工
18 minutes is an absolutely brutal time limit, so I'm going to dive straight in, right at the point where I get this thing to work.	十八分钟是一个非常紧的时间限制， 因此我直入主题，讲重点的， 我将马上开始。
Here we go. I'm going to talk about five different things.	好，我要谈五个不同的事情。
I'm going to talk about why defeating aging is desirable.	一，我要谈谈为什么抗老化是可行的。
I'm going to talk about why we have to get our shit together, and actually talk about this a bit more than we do.	二，我要谈谈为什么我们必须打起精神， 多讨论这个课题，并且发觉我们应该指望战胜老化。
I'm going to talk about feasibility as well, of course.	当然，三，我也会谈谈战胜老化的可行性。
I'm going to talk about why we are so fatalistic about doing anything about aging.	四，我要谈谈为什么我们在人类抗老化上采取的行动这么的认命， 以为都是注定的。
And then I'm going spend perhaps the second half of the talk talking about, you know, how we might actually be able to prove that fatalism is wrong, namely, by actually doing something about it.	然后，第五，我也许在这个节目的下半段的时间谈谈 我们如何证明这个[对战胜老化]漠不关心以及以为是注定的心态是错误的， 并且实际上做点什么事来纠正这个错误。
I'm going to do that in two steps.	这第五点，我会用两个步骤来谈论。
The first one I'm going to talk about is how to get from a relatively modest amount of life extension -- which I'm going to define as 30 years, applied to people who are already in middle-age when you start -- to a point which can genuinely be called defeating aging.	第一个步骤是 如何从一个相对适中的延长寿命治疗科技 - 我这就把它定义为可延长三十年寿命， 并且在已经是中年年龄的人开始应用 – 直到一个能真正被称为战胜老化问题的程度。
Namely, essentially an elimination of the relationship between how old you are and how likely you are to die in the next year -- or indeed, to get sick in the first place.	也就是说，实质上消除了你多大年纪， 以及你在下一年死去或 生病的可能性之间的关系。
And of course, the last thing I'm going to talk about is how to reach that intermediate step, that point of maybe 30 years life extension.	最后一件事[第五件事情， 第二个步骤]我要谈的是如何实现过度步骤， 那个能给我们每一个人延长三十年寿命的治疗科技。
So I'm going to start with why we should.	好，我就从为什么要延长人类的寿命开始。
Now, I want to ask a question.	现在，我想问一个问题。
Hands up: anyone in the audience who is in favor of malaria?	观众席里有谁赞成疟疾是有利的？请举手。
That was easy. OK.	好，这很简单。
OK. Hands up: anyone in the audience who's not sure whether malaria is a good thing or a bad thing?	行。行。请不知道疟疾 是好事还是坏事的人举手？
OK. So we all think malaria is a bad thing.	好。所以，我们都认为，疟疾是一件坏事。
That's very good news, because I thought that was what the answer would be.	这是一个非常好的消息，因为我原以为这就是答案。
Now the thing is, I would like to put it to you that the main reason why we think that malaria is a bad thing is because of a characteristic of malaria that it shares with aging.	现在我希望你们想一想 我们认为疟疾是一件坏事主要的原因， 是因为疟疾和老化有着共同的特征。
And here is that characteristic.	那个特征就是两者都杀死人。
The only real difference is that aging kills considerably more people than malaria does.	唯一真正的区别是，老龄化杀死的人数比疟疾杀死的多许多。
Now, I like in an audience, in Britain especially, to talk about the comparison with foxhunting, which is something that was banned after a long struggle, by the government not very many months ago.	现在，我喜欢观众，尤其是在英国的观众， 比较一下老化和打猎狐狸。 打猎狐狸是是经过长期斗争 不久前被政府禁止的活动。
I mean, I know I'm with a sympathetic audience here, but, as we know, a lot of people are not entirely persuaded by this logic.	我的意思是，虽然我知道富有同情心的观众应该大多数都反对打猎狐狸， 但我们知道，很多人并不是完全被这个逻辑说服。
And this is actually a rather good comparison, it seems to me.	在我看来，这其实和老化是一个不错的比较。
You know, a lot of people said, "Well, you know, city boys have no business telling us rural types what to do with our time.	你知道，很多[郊外]的人说："你们这些 住在城市的人没有权利告诉我们什么活动可以做什么东西不能做。
It's a traditional part of the way of life, and we should be allowed to carry on doing it.	这是我们[住在郊外的人]的传统生活方式的一部分， 我们应该有权力继续做它。
It's ecologically sound; it stops the population explosion of foxes."	这是促进生态健全的，它控制了狐狸数量爆涨。"
But ultimately, the government prevailed in the end, because the majority of the British public, and certainly the majority of members of Parliament, came to the conclusion that it was really something that should not be tolerated in a civilized society.	但是，政府最终占了上风， 因为大多数的英国公众， 还有国会多数成员， 得出的结论，就是这[打猎狐狸] 是一个文明社会所不能容忍的活动。
And I think that human aging shares all of these characteristics in spades.	我认为，人类衰老也有这些特点， 它是一个不能容忍的活动。
What part of this do people not understand?	这有什么难明白的？
It's not just about life, of course -- -- it's about healthy life, you know -- getting frail and miserable and dependent is no fun, whether or not dying may be fun.	这当然不只是生命， （众笑） 这也是有关可以健康的生活下去。 因为无论人们觉得死亡是否好玩[是否应该容忍]， 身体越来越衰弱，悲惨地依赖别人一点都不好玩。
So really, this is how I would like to describe it.	因此，其实这就是我想要对它的[人类衰老]描述。
It's a global trance.	这[它]是一个全球性恍惚。
These are the sorts of unbelievable excuses that people give for aging.	这是人们对老龄化作出了 种种令人难以置信的借口。
And, I mean, OK, I'm not actually saying that these excuses are completely valueless.	而且，我的意思是，好吧，我不是在说 这些借口是完全没有价值。
There are some good points to be made here, things that we ought to be thinking about, forward planning so that nothing goes too -- well, so that we minimize the turbulence when we actually figure out how to fix aging.	这些借口也有一些好的积极方面。 比如说我们应该思考的种种问题，有规划些， 来尽量减少我们在战胜老化路途上 的不必要的动荡。
But these are completely crazy, when you actually remember your sense of proportion.	但只要如果你真正衡量它们， 这些借口都是完全疯了！
You know, these are arguments; these are things that would be legitimate to be concerned about.	你知道，这些[借口的]论点 是合理的，值得去关注。
But the question is, are they so dangerous -- these risks of doing something about aging -- that they outweigh the downside of doing the opposite, namely, leaving aging as it is?	但问题是，这些论点有没有那么危险? 战胜老化的风险 有没有高过 不理会人类老化的代价？
Are these so bad that they outweigh condemning 100,000 people a day to an unnecessarily early death?	难道这些[修复老化的风险]如此糟糕， 比每天超过十万人面对早死的命运还糟糕？
You know, if you haven't got an argument that's that strong, then just don't waste my time, is what I say.	你知道，如果你还没有比这一个说法更强的论点， 那么就不要浪费我的时间。这是我[对反对战胜老化]的看法。
Now, there is one argument that some people do think really is that strong, and here it is.	（众笑） 话虽如此，有一种观点有些人认为， 确实是很强，我们就在这儿讨论一下。
People worry about overpopulation; they say, "Well, if we fix aging, no one's going to die to speak of, or at least the death toll is going to be much lower, only from crossing St. Giles carelessly.	人们担心人口过多，他们说， "好吧，如果我们战胜老化，没有人类死亡可言， 或至少是死亡人数变得低得多， 变得只有不小心越过圣吉尔斯河而死[笑话]。
And therefore, we're not going to be able to have many kids, and kids are really important to most people."	因此，我们不需要有很多孩子， 可是孩子对多数人很重要。"
And that's true.	这是事实。
And you know, a lot of people try to fudge this question, and give answers like this.	你知道，很多人试图捏造这个问题， 并给予这样的答案。
I don't agree with those answers. I think they basically don't work.	我不同意这些答案。我认为它们根本行不通。
I think it's true, that we will face a dilemma in this respect.	我认为这是真的，我们会在这方面面临两难。
We will have to decide whether to have a low birth rate, or a high death rate.	我们将必须决定是否有一个低生育水平， 或者高死亡率。
A high death rate will, of course, arise from simply rejecting these therapies, in favor of carrying on having a lot of kids.	拒绝这些战胜老化治疗，死亡率就会变高[和接受治疗的死亡率相比下]， 当然，在这种情况下我们就能生许多孩子。
And, I say that that's fine -- the future of humanity is entitled to make that choice.	我觉得这没问题 – 人类的下一代，有权做出这个选择。
What's not fine is for us to make that choice on behalf of the future.	不正确和不应该的是我们现在就替下一代的做出这个选择。
If we vacillate, hesitate, and do not actually develop these therapies, then we are condemning a whole cohort of people -- who would have been young enough and healthy enough to benefit from those therapies, but will not be, because we haven't developed them as quickly as we could -- we'll be denying those people an indefinite life span, and I consider that that is immoral.	如果因为我们犹豫， 而不开发这些[战胜老化的]疗法， 那么我们就等于判了我们的子孙一个不能永远活着的命运。 本来因为他们够年轻，够健康， 可以获益于这些疗法。 但因为我们的犹豫，没有尽快开发这些疗法 – 我们等于不让这些人有更长的寿命， 我认为这是不道德的。
That's my answer to the overpopulation question.	这是我对人口过多的问题的回应。
Right. So the next thing is, now why should we get a little bit more active on this?	好，接下来的是， 为什么我们应该在这一方面积极点？
And the fundamental answer is that the pro-aging trance is not as dumb as it looks.	最根本的答案是，[潜意识的认同老化是必然的] 亲老化恍惚并不像它看起来的那么笨。
It's actually a sensible way of coping with the inevitability of aging.	它其实是在应对无法避免的老化时的一个很明智的办法。
Aging is ghastly, but it's inevitable, so, you know, we've got to find some way to put it out of our minds, and it's rational to do anything that we might want to do, to do that.	老化是可怕的，但它是不可避免的，所以， 我们必须想尽办法把这想法从我们头脑中忘记， 理性地去做我们想要做的事情来改变。
Like, for example, making up these ridiculous reasons why aging is actually a good thing after all.	例如，人类会想出这些荒谬的原因 来解释其实老化是件好事。
But of course, that only works when we have both of these components.	当然，这些[荒谬]的原因的起因有两个连接部分[一是老化，二是命中注定。]
And as soon as the inevitability bit becomes a little bit unclear -- and we might be in range of doing something about aging -- this becomes part of the problem.	只要命中注定那个部分在我们的脑海中没那么的肯定， 我们就可以开始对战胜老化采取行动， 这是老化问题的一部分。
This pro-aging trance is what stops us from agitating about these things.	这亲老化恍惚常常妨碍人们解决老化这个问题。
And that's why we have to really talk about this a lot -- evangelize, I will go so far as to say, quite a lot -- in order to get people's attention, and make people realize that they are in a trance in this regard.	这就是为什么我们一定要继续提出以及谈论这个课题， 我甚至会说 – 为了吸引人们的注意力，使人们认识到， 他们在这方面的恍惚，
So that's all I'm going to say about that.	关于这个话题我就说到这里。
I'm now going to talk about feasibility.	我现在要谈的是第三点，打败老化的可行性。
And the fundamental reason, I think, why we feel that aging is inevitable is summed up in a definition of aging that I'm giving here.	其根本原因，我想，为什么我们认为老化是不可避免的， 是可以用我在这儿给老化的定义作为总结。
A very simple definition.	这是一个非常简单的定义。
Aging is a side effect of being alive in the first place, which is to say, metabolism.	老化是一种活着的副作用， 也就是说，新陈代谢的副作用。
This is not a completely tautological statement; it's a reasonable statement.	这并不是一个完全同义重复的声明， 它是一个合理的声明。
Aging is basically a process that happens to inanimate objects like cars, and it also happens to us, despite the fact that we have a lot of clever self-repair mechanisms, because those self-repair mechanisms are not perfect.	老龄化基本上是一个过程，发生在无生命的物体如汽车， 也发生在人类的身上， 尽管我们的身体有很多聪明的自我修复机制， 因为这些自我修复机制还不完善[我们还是会老化]。
So basically, metabolism, which is defined as basically everything that keeps us alive from one day to the next, has side effects.	基本上，新陈代谢，就是说 [在我们身体里]所有为了让我们能够每一天活着所维持的种种化学过程， 有副作用。
Those side effects accumulate and eventually cause pathology.	这些副作用会不断的积累，最终导致病理[不可避免的死亡]。
That's a fine definition. So we can put it this way: we can say that, you know, we have this chain of events.	这是一个不错的定义。因此，我们可以这样表达, 我们可以说，大家都知道，我们有着这一系列事件。
And there are really two games in town, according to most people, with regard to postponing aging.	而且根据大多数人，对于推迟衰老， 只有两种方法。
They're what I'm calling here the "gerontology approach" and the "geriatrics approach."	这两种方法就是老年学和老年医学。
The geriatrician will intervene late in the day, when pathology is becoming evident, and the geriatrician will try and hold back the sands of time, and stop the accumulation of side effects from causing the pathology quite so soon.	老年医学医生会在一个人老化过程的后段， 病理越来越明显的时候， 做治疗来尽量阻止老化时间 和副作用积累 并且阻止那么快就造成不可避免地死亡。
Of course, it's a very short-term-ist strategy; it's a losing battle, because the things that are causing the pathology are becoming more abundant as time goes on.	当然，这是一个非常短暂的战略，是一个败仗， 因为导致病理[不可避免地死亡]的这些副作用 会随着时间的推移越来越多。
The gerontology approach looks much more promising on the surface, because, you know, prevention is better than cure.	老年学的方法在表面上看起来更充满希望具发展前景， 因为你们也知道，预防胜于治疗。
But unfortunately the thing is that we don't understand metabolism very well.	但不幸的是，我们对新陈代谢的理解非常少。
In fact, we have a pitifully poor understanding of how organisms work -- even cells we're not really too good on yet.	事实上，我们对生物体的了解少的可怜 – 甚至细胞，我们都不是很懂。
We've discovered things like, for example, RNA interference only a few years ago, and this is a really fundamental component of how cells work.	连对细胞如何操作的 基本知识， 例如核糖核酸机能失常， 在仅仅几年前,我们才发现它。
Basically, gerontology is a fine approach in the end, but it is not an approach whose time has come when we're talking about intervention.	基本上，如果我们要讨论在我们一生中能用到的延长寿命的治疗， 老年学以后将会是一个很好的方法， 但它的时机未到[因为我们对新陈代谢的理解还太少]。
So then, what do we do about that?	然后呢，这怎么办呢？
I mean, that's a fine logic, that sounds pretty convincing, pretty ironclad, doesn't it?	我的意思，这是一个很好的逻辑， 听起来非常有说服力的，不是吗？
But it isn't.	但事实并非如此。
Before I tell you why it isn't, I'm going to go a little bit into what I'm calling step two.	在我告诉你为什么不能之前， 我要谈谈我所谓的第二步。
Just suppose, as I said, that we do acquire -- let's say we do it today for the sake of argument -- the ability to confer 30 extra years of healthy life on people who are already in middle age, let's say 55.	我们假设，如果正如我所说的， 我们 - 假设说今天 – 就拥有能够给现在已是中年，假设说五十五岁的人， 多三十年的健康寿命的治疗方法。
I'm going to call that "robust human rejuvenation." OK.	我称这为'强健人类再生' 。好。
What would that actually mean for how long people of various ages today -- or equivalently, of various ages at the time that these therapies arrive -- would actually live?	那么实际上这对于现在不同年龄的人们， 或者相等地，当这些治疗方法到达时 已是不同年龄的人有什么影响呢？ 他们会活多久些呢？
In order to answer that question -- you might think it's simple, but it's not simple.	你可能会认为回答这个问题很简单， 但它并不简单。
We can't just say, "Well, if they're young enough to benefit from these therapies, then they'll live 30 years longer."	我们不能只是说："好吧，如果他们足够年轻，得益于这些治疗方法， 那么他们就会活[比本来]多三十年的时间。"
That's the wrong answer.	这是错误的答案。
And the reason it's the wrong answer is because of progress.	而错误的原因是因为进步。
There are two sorts of technological progress really, for this purpose.	对于我们这方面的治疗， 科学进步有两种。
There are fundamental, major breakthroughs, and there are incremental refinements of those breakthroughs.	第一种是突破性的进步， 然后还有第二种就是不断的在那些突破性的进步上做出改良和提高它们的有效率。
Now, they differ a great deal in terms of the predictability of time frames.	这两种科学进步所需的 时间的预测度有很大的不同。
Fundamental breakthroughs: very hard to predict how long it's going to take to make a fundamental breakthrough.	我们很难预测 多久才会有 突破性的进步。
It was a very long time ago that we decided that flying would be fun, and it took us until 1903 to actually work out how to do it.	人类很有可能在很多年前就想在天空上飞行了， 可是要等到一九零三年才发现到底怎么飞行。
But after that, things were pretty steady and pretty uniform.	可是这之后，人类飞行的科技就很有步骤地发展下去。
I think this is a reasonable sequence of events that happened in the progression of the technology of powered flight.	我认为这是一个很合乎情理才导致了 动力飞行的科技进展。
We can think, really, that each one is sort of beyond the imagination of the inventor of the previous one, if you like.	我们可以想象这些科技发展的每一步都是 上一步的研发人所想不到的。
The incremental advances have added up to something which is not incremental anymore.	比起原先每次都递进增值 有进展。
This is the sort of thing you see after a fundamental breakthrough.	在每个科学突破性的进步后，您都会看到这些有步骤性的发展。
And you see it in all sorts of technologies.	而且在很多科技上都是这样。
Computers: you can look at a more or less parallel time line, happening of course a bit later.	比如说电脑，和飞行科技也很类似， 只是发生的时间不同罢了。
You can look at medical care. I mean, hygiene, vaccines, antibiotics -- you know, the same sort of time frame.	您也可以看一看医药保健科技，比如说卫生，疫苗，抗生素， 也有着一样的发展时间表。
So I think that actually step two, that I called a step a moment ago, isn't a step at all.	因此，我认为其实两个步骤，我刚才称为一个步骤， 并不完全是一个步骤。
That in fact, the people who are young enough to benefit from these first therapies that give this moderate amount of life extension, even though those people are already middle-aged when the therapies arrive, will be at some sort of cusp.	事实上，很年轻的人 会从这些实验治疗方法受益， 能使人们的生命适量延长， 即使这些人已经中年，当这些治疗方法来到 人们还可以尝试治疗方法。
They will mostly survive long enough to receive improved treatments that will give them a further 30 or maybe 50 years.	他们多数活得足够长来接受改进的治疗方法， 从而使他们多活30年甚至50年。
In other words, they will be staying ahead of the game.	换句话说，他们将领先于老化的速度。
The therapies will be improving faster than the remaining imperfections in the therapies are catching up with us.	治疗法比起治疗法中存在的缺陷 改进得更快。
This is a very important point for me to get across.	这是我想说的非常重要的一点。
Because, you know, most people, when they hear that I predict that a lot of people alive today are going to live to 1,000 or more, they think that I'm saying that we're going to invent therapies in the next few decades that are so thoroughly eliminating aging that those therapies will let us live to 1,000 or more.	因为，很多人一听到 我推测很多现在活着的人将会活到一千或更多年以上， 他们都在想，哦，我们将会在这几十年内发明 延缓老化的治疗方法， 研究如何活到一千年甚至更多的治疗方法。
I'm not saying that at all.	我并不是这么说。
I'm saying that the rate of improvement of those therapies will be enough.	我说的只是这些延长寿命的治疗方法的 发展速度会足够使人们继续活下去。
They'll never be perfect, but we'll be able to fix the things that 200-year-olds die of, before we have any 200-year-olds.	这些治疗方法我想永远都不可能完美， 但我们将可以在还没有两百岁的人之前就研究到如何治疗两百岁的人所死于的病理因素。
And the same for 300 and 400 and so on.	接下来，我们就在还没有三，四百岁的人之前就研究到如何治疗三，四百岁的人所死于的因素。
I decided to give this a little name, which is "longevity escape velocity."	我称这为"长寿逃逸速度"， 要逃离死亡，长寿治疗方法必有快速的发展，叫逃逸速度。
Well, it seems to get the point across.	这是个很容易明白的名称。
So, these trajectories here are basically how we would expect people to live, in terms of remaining life expectancy, as measured by their health, for given ages that they were at the time that these therapies arrive.	这就是我们可以期待 在余下的预期寿命， 以他们的健康来衡量， 到了一定年龄，相对应的治疗就相应而出。
If you're already 100, or even if you're 80 -- and an average 80-year-old, we probably can't do a lot for you with these therapies, because you're too close to death's door for the really initial, experimental therapies to be good enough for you.	如果你已经100岁，或者你是80岁， 平均80岁， 我们可能很难为您做些什么， 因为您的时间不多了。 所以最初的，实验性疗法对你已经不起作用了。
You won't be able to withstand them.	你将无法避免老化。
But if you're only 50, then there's a chance that you might be able to pull out of the dive and, you know -- -- eventually get through this and start becoming biologically younger in a meaningful sense, in terms of your youthfulness, both physical and mental, and in terms of your risk of death from age-related causes.	可是，如果您才五十岁的话， 您很有可能像我刚刚描述的那个样子摆脱了老化去世的问题。 您不但可以活的更久些， 某种意义上 你的青春，从身体和头脑上， 你的生命变得更加年轻， 你死于和老化有关的病症的几率也会降低。
And of course, if you're a bit younger than that, then you're never really even going to get near to being fragile enough to die of age-related causes.	当然，如果你还不到五十岁的话， 您更有可能永远摆脱了老化去世的问题， 而不会虚弱因老化而生成的疾病死亡。
So this is a genuine conclusion that I come to, that the first 150-year-old -- we don't know how old that person is today, because we don't know how long it's going to take to get these first-generation therapies.	因此，这是我得到的一个真正的结论，就是说第一位[能够活到一百五十岁 – 我们不知道该人现在多老了， 因为我们不知道第一代[延长寿命的] 疗法要多久才会出现。
But irrespective of that age, I'm claiming that the first person to live to 1,000 -- subject of course, to, you know, global catastrophes -- is actually, probably, only about 10 years younger than the first 150-year-old.	但无论是年龄， 我声称的第一人会活到一千年的人 – 当然，排除全球性灾难 - 实际上， 大概只有比我说的那位活到一百五十岁的人年轻十岁左右。
And that's quite a thought.	很令人值得想一想的结论吧。
Alright, so finally I'm going to spend the rest of the talk, my last seven-and-a-half minutes, on step one; namely, how do we actually get to this moderate amount of life extension that will allow us to get to escape velocity?	好，接下来我要用这个讲座所剩下的时间， 我的七个半分钟来谈谈我所谓的第一个步骤， 就是我们如何得到这第一批延长寿命的适中治疗， 使我们可以达到长寿逃逸速度？
And in order to do that, I need to talk about mice a little bit.	而为了做到这一点，我需要说一点点关于老鼠的事。
I have a corresponding milestone to robust human rejuvenation.	我有一个对强健人类再生相应的里程碑，
I'm calling it "robust mouse rejuvenation," not very imaginatively.	我不是很富有想象力地称它为强健老鼠再生[的治疗科技]。
And this is what it is.	这是什么呢？
I say we're going to take a long-lived strain of mouse, which basically means mice that live about three years on average.	就是我们要采用一种长寿的老鼠， 就等于平均可以活三年左右的老鼠。
We do exactly nothing to them until they're already two years old.	我们完全没有碰过它们，直到它们已经两岁。
And then we do a whole bunch of stuff to them, and with those therapies, we get them to live, on average, to their fifth birthday.	然后我们对它们做了一大堆的东西， 用那些治疗方法使它们延长寿命， 想办法让他们平均活到五岁。
So, in other words, we add two years -- we treble their remaining lifespan, starting from the point that we started the therapies.	因此，换句话说，我们开始把这些老鼠治疗后，添加了两年寿命 – 已经是它们剩余寿命 的三倍。
The question then is, what would that actually mean for the time frame until we get to the milestone I talked about earlier for humans?	接下来的问题是，到底什么时候， 我们讨论的这些才能用在人类身上呢？
Which we can now, as I've explained, equivalently call either robust human rejuvenation or longevity escape velocity.	我们现在可以，正如我已经解释过， 把它称为强健人类再生，或长寿逃逸速度。
Secondly, what does it mean for the public's perception of how long it's going to take for us to get to those things, starting from the time we get the mice?	第二，从我们得到的第一只老鼠时开始， 公众对多久我们才能获得这些东西， 对这些科技的发展有什么影响？
And thirdly, the question is, what will it do to actually how much people want it?	第三，问题是，它对多少人想要避免老化的人们起作用？ 这些科技有什么影响呢？
And it seems to me that the first question is entirely a biology question, and it's extremely hard to answer.	我的看法是， 第一个问题完全是生物学的问题， 这是非常难回答。
One has to be very speculative, and many of my colleagues would say that we should not do this speculation, that we should simply keep our counsel until we know more.	一个人必须非常投机， 和我的许多同事会说，我们不应该做这种推测， 我们应该简单地保持沉默，直到我们了解更多。
I say that's nonsense.	我觉得这是一派胡言。
I say we absolutely are irresponsible if we stay silent on this.	保持沉默，绝对是不负责任的。
We need to give our best guess as to the time frame, in order to give people a sense of proportion so that they can assess their priorities.	我们需要给我们最好的猜测有时间框架， 以便使人们有个概念， 使他们能够评估他们的优先事项。
So, I say that we have a 50/50 chance of reaching this RHR milestone, robust human rejuvenation, within 15 years from the point that we get to robust mouse rejuvenation.	所以，我说，从我们应用强健老鼠再生的科技 的十五年内，我们有百分之五十的机会 实现强健人类再生科技 这个重要的里程碑。
15 years from the robust mouse.	强健老鼠再生的科技应用的十五年内，
The public's perception will probably be somewhat better than that.	人们的看法可能会变好。
The public tends to underestimate how difficult scientific things are.	因为人们往往低估的科学进步的困难性。
So they'll probably think it's five years away.	因此，他们很可能会认为只需五年。
They'll be wrong, but that actually won't matter too much.	他们可能是错误的，但实际上这不太重要。
And finally, of course, I think it's fair to say that a large part of the reason why the public is so ambivalent about aging now is the global trance I spoke about earlier, the coping strategy.	最后，当然，我认为公众对于老龄化 的看法这么的矛盾的主要原因， 是我刚才谈到的全球恍惚的应对策略。
That will be history at this point, because it will no longer be possible to believe that aging is inevitable in humans, since it's been postponed so very effectively in mice.	这将是历史性的一刻， 因为公众将不再认为老化是人类不可避免的， 因为它已经非常有效地在小老鼠体内被推迟。
So we're likely to end up with a very strong change in people's attitudes, and of course that has enormous implications.	因此，我们很可能会看到人们的观念有了巨大变化， 而这将会具有极大的影响。
So in order to tell you now how we're going to get these mice, I'm going to add a little bit to my description of aging.	为了现在要告诉你我们要如何得到这些老鼠， 我要补充一点我对老化的描述。
I'm going to use this word "damage" to denote these intermediate things that are caused by metabolism and that eventually cause pathology.	我会用"损害"这个词来表示 所有由新陈代谢中阶段造成的东西， 而最终导致不可避免的死亡。
Because the critical thing about this is that even though the damage only eventually causes pathology, the damage itself is caused ongoing-ly throughout life, starting before we're born.	因为这个关键的是， 尽管这些损害只有在最终才会造成不可避免的死亡， 它们是从我们出生之前就开始累积的东西，我们整个人生它们都不断累积。
But it is not part of metabolism itself.	但是这些损害不是新陈代谢的一部分，
And this turns out to be useful.	这一点对我们来说是有益的。
Because we can re-draw our original diagram this way.	因为这样我们可以重新绘制我们的原始图。
We can say that, fundamentally, the difference between gerontology and geriatrics is that gerontology tries to inhibit the rate at which metabolism lays down this damage.	我们可以说，老年学和老年病学之间根本区别就是， 老年学试图抑制[避免]新陈代谢[的副作用]， 这些"损害"累积的速度。
And I'm going to explain exactly what damage is in concrete biological terms in a moment.	我等一下会准确地解释我所谓 的"损害"在生物学里指的是什么。
And geriatricians try to hold back the sands of time by stopping the damage converting into pathology.	老年病学呢，就试图阻止[医治] 这些"损害"所带来的的后果，
And the reason it's a losing battle is because the damage is continuing to accumulate.	比如说死亡。这是一个败仗， 因为损害只会继续积累。
So there's a third approach, if we look at it this way.	如果我们这样看的话，有第三种办法。
We can call it the "engineering approach," and I claim that the engineering approach is within range.	我们可以把它叫做工程方法， 我声称工程方法是在人类的科技，技术范围之内。
The engineering approach does not intervene in any processes.	该工程方法不会干预任何[我们身体内的新陈代谢的]过程。
It does not intervene in this process or this one.	它不会干预这个过程，也不干预这一个。
And that's good because it means that it's not a losing battle, and it's something that we are within range of being able to do, because it doesn't involve improving on evolution.	这很好，因为这意味着这不是一个败仗， 并且它是在我们现在的[技术]范围之内能够做到的事情， 因为它不涉及对人类进化改善。
The engineering approach simply says, "Let's go and periodically repair all of these various types of damage -- not necessarily repair them completely, but repair them quite a lot, so that we keep the level of damage down below the threshold that must exist, that causes it to be pathogenic."	该工程方法只是表示， "我们定期修复所有的这些不同类型的损害 – 他们不一定完全修复[这些损害]， 但修复的足以让我们继续避免 一个会造成导致死亡或生病的程度。"
We know that this threshold exists, because we don't get age-related diseases until we're in middle age, even though the damage has been accumulating since before we were born.	我们知道这个门槛程度的存在， 因为我们只有当我们在中年时才会得到与年龄有关的疾病， 即使损害已经从我们诞生时就开始累积了。
Why do I say that we're in range? Well, this is basically it.	为什么我说，[工程方法]在人类近期的技术范围内呢？这[图片]基本上就是原因。
The point about this slide is actually the bottom.	这图片的重点在底部。
If we try to say which bits of metabolism are important for aging, we will be here all night, because basically all of metabolism is important for aging in one way or another.	如果我们试图说新陈代谢的那个部分才是对老化过程有着重要的影响， 那我们可能要在这里呆一整晚， 因为基本上新陈代谢的每个组件都对老化有影响。
This list is just for illustration; it is incomplete.	这个列表仅仅是一个例子，它是不完整的。
The list on the right is also incomplete.	右边的列表也一样不完整。
It's a list of types of pathology that are age-related, and it's just an incomplete list.	它们只是一种与年龄 有关的病的列表。
But I would like to claim to you that this list in the middle is actually complete -- this is the list of types of thing that qualify as damage, side effects of metabolism that cause pathology in the end, or that might cause pathology.	但这中间的我主张是完整的列表， 所有代谢副作用有资格被称为"损害"， 最终会导致病理[不可避免的死亡] 或可能造成病理类型。
And there are only seven of them.	而这列表只有七个。
They're categories of things, of course, but there's only seven of them.	当然，这七个是类别，但只有七个。
Cell loss, mutations in chromosomes, mutations in the mitochondria and so on.	细胞损失，染色体突变，在线粒体基因突变等。
First of all, I'd like to give you an argument for why that list is complete.	首先，我想给你们解释一个为什么我认为这份列表是完全的。
Of course one can make a biological argument.	当然，我们可以使用生物学的角度来争论。
One can say, "OK, what are we made of?"	可以说，好，我们是什么做的？
We're made of cells and stuff between cells.	我们是由细胞和细胞间的东西。
What can damage accumulate in?	"损害"可以累积在那里？
The answer is: long-lived molecules, because if a short-lived molecule undergoes damage, but then the molecule is destroyed -- like by a protein being destroyed by proteolysis -- then the damage is gone, too.	答案是，长期存在的分子里， 因为如果一个短暂寿命的分子遭到破坏，它将会在寿命完了后被销毁 – 就像蛋白质被水解摧毁 – 累积的损害也一起被销毁了。
It's got to be long-lived molecules.	所以"损害"累积的地方一定是很长寿命的分子里。
So, these seven things were all under discussion in gerontology a long time ago and that is pretty good news, because it means that, you know, we've come a long way in biology in these 20 years, so the fact that we haven't extended this list is a pretty good indication that there's no extension to be done.	因此[因为这个理由的很大的可能性]，这七个东西，都是由老年学士很久以前就讨论过了。 这是相当好的消息，因为这意味着， 尽管我们在这二十年里对生物学有着很大的成就， 这份列表还只有七样东西是一个非常好的迹象， 因为它显示它已不可再增加了。
However, it's better than that; we actually know how to fix them all, in mice, in principle -- and what I mean by in principle is, we probably can actually implement these fixes within a decade.	这个消息比你们想象的更好， 因为我们在原则上知道如何在老鼠里解决所有这些七样东西 – 我所谓的原则指的是， 我们或许可以真正实现在十年内这些修复治疗。
Some of them are partially implemented already, the ones at the top.	其中有些[七样里的]部分已经落实了，尤其是在顶部的。
I haven't got time to go through them at all, but my conclusion is that, if we can actually get suitable funding for this, then we can probably develop robust mouse rejuvenation in only 10 years, but we do need to get serious about it.	我[在这里]没有时间一个一个的解释， 但我的结论是，如果我们能够得到适合的资金， 那么我们或许可以在只有十年内成功发展强健的大规模人类再生[治疗科技]， 但我们确实需要认真想想它。
We do need to really start trying.	我们需要真正开始尝试。
So of course, there are some biologists in the audience, and I want to give some answers to some of the questions that you may have.	对于观众里的生物学家， 你们可能有一些问题，我会回答你们。
You may have been dissatisfied with this talk, but fundamentally you have to go and read this stuff.	你可能对这个讲座有些不满， 但你必须去阅读这些[已经刊登在研究杂志]内容，
I've published a great deal on this; I cite the experimental work on which my optimism is based, and there's quite a lot of detail there.	我已经刊登了对老化很多的资料； 而且我就凭着这些研究为基础对人类老化治疗科技持乐观态度， 里头的细节还有很多。
The detail is what makes me confident of my rather aggressive time frames that I'm predicting here.	这些细节使我对我在这里预测的 相当挑战性的时间表更加有信心。
So if you think that I'm wrong, you'd better damn well go and find out why you think I'm wrong.	如果你觉得我错了， 我希望你能看了这些资料以及研究报考后再来解释为什么你认为我是错的。
And of course the main thing is that you shouldn't trust people who call themselves gerontologists because, as with any radical departure from previous thinking within a particular field, you know, you expect people in the mainstream to be a bit resistant and not really to take it seriously.	最主要的是你不应该相信 自称是老年医学的人， 因为在任何领域里 如果有激进的思想变化，主流的人一定有点抵抗 而且不认真的对待它。
So, you know, you've got to actually do your homework, in order to understand whether this is true.	所以，你必须真正做好准备工作， 才能了解这是否属实。
And we'll just end with a few things.	我们在结束前就讲讲几件事。
One thing is, you know, you'll be hearing from a guy in the next session who said some time ago that he could sequence the human genome in half no time, and everyone said, "Well, it's obviously impossible."	有一件事就是，你将会在下届会议听一个家伙说起以前， 当他说他可以测序人类基因组时，人们是怎么的回答他。 每个人都说："这是不可能的。"
And you know what happened.	可是你也知道，
So, you know, this does happen.	这确实发生了。
We have various strategies -- there's the Methuselah Mouse Prize, which is basically an incentive to innovate, and to do what you think is going to work, and you get money for it if you win.	我们有不同的策略 – 有玛士撒拉奖， 这基本上是一个鼓励创新， 做你认为是可行的[方法延长寿命]， 如果成功的话，你就可以赢钱。
There's a proposal to actually put together an institute.	还有一个计划建议组织一个机构，
This is what's going to take a bit of money.	可是这将会需要点钱。
But, I mean, look -- how long does it take to spend that on the war in Iraq?	我的意思是，你看我们在伊拉克战争上耗这么久浪费了多少钱？
Not very long. OK.	不会再久吧。好吧。
It's got to be philanthropic, because profits distract biotech, but it's basically got a 90 percent chance, I think, of succeeding in this.	（众笑） 这些研究的钱的来源最好是[私人]慈善，因为利润会分散生物技术研究公司[的注意力]， 但我认为它[我所提出的这些时间表和延长人类寿命的治疗科技的发展蓝图]]基本上有着百分之九十的机会成功。
And I think we know how to do it. And I'll stop there.	因为我们已经知道应该怎么做。我就说到这里。
Thank you.	谢谢您。
OK. I don't know if there's going to be any questions but I thought I would give people the chance.	（鼓掌） 克里斯安德森：好。我不知道大家有没有问题， 但我想我会给他们机会。
Audience: Since you've been talking about aging and trying to defeat it, why is it that you make yourself appear like an old man?	观众：既然你在谈论老龄化，并试图战胜它， 那为什么你看上去就像一位老人呢？
AG: Because I am an old man. I am actually 158.	（众笑） 奥布里德格雷：因为我是一个老人。其实我是已经是一百五十八岁。
Audience: Species on this planet have evolved with immune systems to fight off all the diseases so that individuals live long enough to procreate.	（众笑） （鼓掌） 观众：这个星球上的物种进化了免疫系统， 以对抗各种的疾病，使个人活到足够生育的年龄。
However, as far as I know, all the species have evolved to actually die, so when cells divide, the telomerase get shorter, and eventually species die.	不过，据我所知，所有的物种都进化到实际会死亡， 因此，当细胞分裂时，端粒酶变得越来越短了，最终物种死亡。
So, why does -- evolution has -- seems to have selected against immortality, when it is so advantageous, or is evolution just incomplete?	那么，为什么进化过程似乎已选定'针对'永存不朽？ 或者那只是进化过程还不完整？
AG: Brilliant. Thank you for asking a question that I can answer with an uncontroversial answer.	奥布里德格雷：好！谢谢你问一个我可以 用一个没有争议的答案来回答你。
I'm going to tell you the genuine mainstream answer to your question, which I happen to agree with, which is that, no, aging is not a product of selection, evolution; [aging] is simply a product of evolutionary neglect.	我要告诉你主流思想的答案来回答你的问题， 我也恰巧同意这个答案。 那就是，不，老化不是一个进化过程的后果， 只是进化过程所忽视的后果。
In other words, we have aging because it's hard work not to have aging; you need more genetic pathways, more sophistication in your genes in order to age more slowly, and that carries on being true the longer you push it out.	换句话说，我们会老化，因为没有老化的话比较难； [因为]你需要更多的遗传途径，你的基因需要变得更复杂， 以便让你老的比较慢些， 而且你越想要把老化推迟，你[的身体的进化过程]就越需要面对这些难题。
So, to the extent that evolution doesn't matter, doesn't care whether genes are passed on by individuals, living a long time or by procreation, there's a certain amount of modulation of that, which is why different species have different lifespans, but that's why there are no immortal species.	因此，到进化不重要的程度， 不在乎是个体， 或则生活的很长的一段时间， 或则靠生育种种方法来把基因传给下一代，有一定的调节， 这就是为什么不同物种有不同的寿命， 但是这就是为什么没有永存的物种。
The genes don't care but we do?	克里斯安德森：这些基因并不关心，但我们关心？
AG: That's right.	奥布里德格雷：是的。
Audience: Hello. I read somewhere that in the last 20 years, the average lifespan of basically anyone on the planet has grown by 10 years.	观众：您好。我听说在过去的二十年中， 基本上这个星球上的人的平均寿命增长了十年。
If I project that, that would make me think that I would live until 120 if I don't crash on my motorbike.	如果以这个资料推断，如果我没有在我的摩托车上发生任何事故， 我将能够活到一百二十岁。
That means that I'm one of your subjects to become a 1,000-year-old?	这意味着，我将会变成你所谓能够活到一千年研究课题之一？
AG: If you lose a bit of weight.	奥布里德格雷：如果你瘦一点儿。
Your numbers are a bit out.	（众笑） 你的数据有点出入。
The standard numbers are that lifespans have been growing at between one and two years per decade.	标准的数字是， 寿命已经在每十年增长一至两年。
So, it's not quite as good as you might think, you might hope.	因此，它不是你觉得或希望的那么好。
But I intend to move it up to one year per year as soon as possible.	不过，我打算尽快将它快速发展到每年寿命多一年。
Audience: I was told that many of the brain cells we have as adults are actually in the human embryo, and that the brain cells last 80 years or so.	观众：我被告知，许多我们成人的脑细胞， 实际上在胚胎里是就有了， 而脑细胞能活八十年左右的时间。
If that is indeed true, biologically are there implications in the world of rejuvenation?	如果事实的确如此， 在生理的角度看，对再生[科技]的世界会有什么影响？
If there are cells in my body that live all 80 years, as opposed to a typical, you know, couple of months?	如果在我身体的所有细胞， 可以活到八十年，而不是一个典型的在两个月就死去的细胞？
AG: There are technical implications certainly.	奥布里德格雷：当然，这是技术问题。
Basically what we need to do is replace cells in those few areas of the brain that lose cells at a respectable rate, especially neurons, but we don't want to replace them any faster than that -- or not much faster anyway, because replacing them too fast would degrade cognitive function.	基本上我们需要做的是取代大脑 的几个领域的细胞的流失率， 尤其是神经元，但我们不想比 那流失率更快地取代任何细胞 – 因为更换地太快会降低认知功能。
What I said about there being no non-aging species earlier on was a little bit of an oversimplification.	我刚刚说的没有不老化物种 是有点过于简单化。
There are species that have no aging -- Hydra for example -- but they do it by not having a nervous system -- and not having any tissues in fact that rely for their function on very long-lived cells.	有些物种没有老化。例如水螅 – 因为他们没有一个神经系统 – 也没有任何用于老化的的细胞 却有长寿的细胞组织。
Last year when I was here, I was speaking to you about a swim which I did across the North Pole.	去年，当我站在这里的时候，我在谈论我横跨 北极的游泳。
And while that swim took place three years ago, I can remember it as if it was yesterday.	那还是发生在3年前， 对我则好像是昨天一般。
I remember standing on the edge of the ice, about to dive into the water, and thinking to myself, I have never ever seen any place on this earth which is just so frightening.	我还记得我站在冰层的边缘， 就要扎进水里， 然后我自己想到，我再也再也 不要看到地球上的这个地方， 这里是如此的让人恐惧。
The water is completely black.	那里的水是全黑色。
The water is minus 1.7 degrees centigrade, or 29 degrees Fahrenheit.	水的温度是负1.7摄氏度， 华氏29度。
It's flipping freezing in that water.	那水里就是翻动的冰块。
And then a thought came across my mind: if things go pear-shaped on this swim, how long will it take for my frozen body to sink the four and a half kilometers to the bottom of the ocean?	然后一个念头在我脑中划过： 如果这场泳出了点问题， 我这冰冻的身体要花多长时间 才能沉到这 4500米的底部呢？
And then I said to myself, I've just got to get this thought out of my mind as quickly as possible.	然后我告诫我自己，我要把这个念头尽快的 抛在我的脑后。
And the only way I can dive into that freezing cold water and swim a kilometer is by listening to my iPod and really revving myself up, listening to everything from beautiful opera all the way across to Puff Daddy, and then committing myself a hundred percent -- there is nothing more powerful than the made-up mind -- and then walking up to the edge of the ice and just diving into the water.	能让我扎入 这冰冷的水里 然后游了4千米的唯一方法就是 听着我的iPod，让我自己全力运转起来， 我听了所有的歌，从华丽的歌剧 到吹牛老爹， 然后全身心的投入 没有什么比下定决心还要厉害的 －－ 然后走到冰的边缘 扎入水里。
And that swim took me 18 minutes and 50 seconds, and it felt like 18 days.	这次游泳花了我 18分50秒， 但好像是18天一样。
And I remember getting out of the water and my hands feeling so painful and looking down at my fingers, and my fingers were literally the size of sausages because -- you know, we're made partially of water -- when water freezes it expands, and so the cells in my fingers had frozen and expanded and burst.	我记得当我从水里出来时 我的手时如此的疼痛 然后我看着我的手指， 我的手指真的像香肠一样粗 因为－－你们知道了，我们身体一部分由水组成 －－ 当水结冰时会膨胀， 这样我手指的里细胞 就冷冻了，膨胀了 炸裂了。
And the most immediate thought when I came out of that water was the following: I'm never, ever going to do another cold water swim in my life again.	我从水里上岸的一瞬间的想法 时这样的： 我一生中 再也再也不要去在冰冷的 水里游泳了。
Anyway, last year, I heard about the Himalayas and the melting of the -- and the melting of the glaciers because of climate change.	就这样，去年，我听到了喜马拉雅山 以及那里融化的－－ 因为气候变化 所融化的冰川。
I heard about this lake, Lake Imja.	我听说了这个湖泊，映佳湖。
This lake has been formed in the last couple of years because of the melting of the glacier.	这个湖是几年前 由于冰川融化所形成的。
The glacier's gone all the way up the mountain and left in its place this big lake.	这些冰川顺山而下 然后在这里留下了这个大湖。
And I firmly believe that what we're seeing in the Himalayas is the next great, big battleground on this earth.	由此我坚信 我要去看见的喜马拉雅 就是我下一个在地球上的 战场。
Nearly two billion people -- so one in three people on this earth -- rely on the water from the Himalayas.	将近20亿的人口 －－ 世界上三分之一的地球人口 －－ 依靠着喜马拉雅山的水源。
And with a population increasing as quickly as it is, and with the water supply from these glaciers -- because of climate change -- decreasing so much, I think we have a real risk of instability.	而世界人口照这个速度发展下去， 而冰川水源的提供 －－ 由于气候的变化 －－ 下降的如此之快， 我像我们就有了一个十分不稳定的威胁。
North, you've got China; south, you've India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, all these countries.	北方，我们由中国；南方，我们有印度，巴基斯坦，孟加拉， 和其它所有国家。
And so I decided to walk up to Mt. Everest, the highest mountain on this earth, and go and do a symbolic swim underneath the summit of Mt. Everest.	这样我决定了 登上珠峰， 地球上的最高峰， 如何在珠峰下 游一次 具有象征意义的泳。
Now, I don't know if any of you have had the opportunity to go to Mt. Everest, but it's quite an ordeal getting up there.	我不知道，你们是否有机会去珠峰， 但是要去那的话，是一个考验。
28 great, big, powerful yaks carrying all the equipment up onto this mountain -- I don't just have my Speedo, but there's a big film crew who then send all the images around the world.	28只巨大的牦牛 载着所有的仪器登上山峰 －－ 我不仅仅带这我的泳裤。 还有一个摄像团队 这个摄像团队，会向世界各地直播。
The other thing which was so challenging about this swim is not just the altitude.	这次游泳的挑战不仅仅只有 海拔。
I wanted to do the swim at 5,300 meters above sea level.	我想做的是在5300米的海平面上游泳。
So it's right up in the heavens.	所以直达天堂。
It's very, very difficult to breath. You get altitude sickness.	这里呼吸十分，十分困难。你会有高原反应。
I feels like you've got a man standing behind you with a hammer just hitting your head all the time.	你会感到有一个人不停的那着一把锤子 在敲你的后脑勺。
That's not the worst part of it.	这还不是最差的。
The worst part was this year was the year where they decided to do a big cleanup operation on Mt. Everest.	最糟糕的是，这一年他们决定 在珠峰上做一个大扫除。
Many, many people have died on Mt. Everest, and this was the year they decided to go and recover all the bodies of the mountaineers and then bring them down the mountain.	许多人死在珠峰上， 然后今年，他们决定 收回珠峰上所有的尸体 然后把他们带下山。
And when you're walking up the mountain to attempt to do something which no human has ever done before, and, in fact, no fish -- there are no fish up there swimming at 5,300 meters -- When you're trying to do that, and then the bodies are coming past you, it humbles you, and you also realize very, very clearly that nature is so much more powerful than we are.	而当你想上山 做一些事情 一些没有人做过的事情，事实上，鱼都没游过。 在5300米的海拔高度上，没有任何鱼在那里游过。 当你尝试着去做这些事情， 然后你看到这些尸体和你擦肩而过， 这让人不禁有些气馁， 也让你就会清晰的认识到 自然比我们要 强大多了。
And we walked up this pathway, all the way up.	然后我们就沿着这条路 一直走上去。
And to the right hand side of us was this great Khumbu Glacier.	然后在我们的右手边 是巨大的昆布冰川。
And all the way along the glacier we saw these big pools of melting ice.	然后，我们在沿路经过所看到的冰川的 都是一大块融化的冰块。
And then we got up to this small lake underneath the summit of Mt. Everest, and I prepared myself the same way as I've always prepared myself, for this swim which was going to be so very difficult.	然后我们到达在珠峰下 的一个小湖这 然后我开始准备自己， 像往常一样准备自己， 因为这样的游泳方式会是十分艰难的。
I put on my iPod, I listened to some music, I got myself as aggressive as possible -- but controlled aggression -- and then I hurled myself into that water.	我带上我的iPod, 我听听歌， 我让我能有多激奋就多激奋－－ 但是是可以控制的激奋 －－ 然后我把我自己扎进 水里。
I swam as quickly as I could for the first hundred meters, and then I realized very, very quickly, I had a huge problem on my hands.	我尽力的游着 最起码在前一百米， 然后，我突然意识到， 我面临一个巨大的问题。
I could barely breathe.	我几乎不能呼吸。
I was gasping for air.	我喘了一口气。
I then began to choke, and then it quickly led to me vomiting in the water.	然后我开始呛水了， 这导致我在水里呕吐。
And it all happened so quickly: I then -- I don't know how it happened -- but I went underwater.	这一切发生的如此之快 然后 －－ 我不知到是怎么发生的 －－ 但是我沉入水底。
And luckily, the water was quite shallow, and I was able to push myself off the bottom of the lake and get up and then take another gasp of air.	但幸运的是，水比较的浅， 我可以从湖底跳起来 然后喘另一口气。
And then I said, carry on. Carry on. Carry on.	然后我说道，坚持，坚持，坚持。
I carried on for another five or six strokes, and then I had nothing in my body, and I went down to the bottom of the lake.	我继续划了五到六下水， 然后我就筋疲力尽了， 我沉入湖底。
And I don't where I got it from, but I was able to somehow pull myself up and as quickly as possible get to the side of the lake.	但是我不知从哪来的力气， 我可以就这样 把自己从湖底以最快的速度 弄到湖的岸边。
I've heard it said that drowning is the most peaceful death that you can have.	我听说过溺水 是你可以死的最安详的方式。
I have never, ever heard such utter bollocks.	我从来没有听过 这样的胡说八道。
It is the most frightening and panicky feeling that you can have.	这是你们所感受过的 最恐惧，最惊慌的感觉。
I got myself to the side of the lake.	我把我自己拽到湖岸。
My crew grabbed me, and then we walked as quickly as we could down -- over the rubble -- down to our camp.	我的队友抓住了我， 然后我们以最快的速度 下山－－在碎石中－－ 到达我们的营地。
And there, we sat down, and we did a debrief about what had gone wrong there on Mt. Everest.	在那里，我们坐下来， 然后我们做了一下在珠峰 哪里出错的报告。
And my team just gave it to me straight.	然后我的队员直接告诉我。
They said, Lewis, you need to have a radical tactical shift if you want to do this swim.	他们说道，Lewis, 你要有一个 剧烈的战术变化 如果你想完成这个游泳。
Every single thing which you have learned in the past 23 years of swimming, you must forget.	你必须忘掉 在23年里所学到的游泳 里所有的东西。
Every single thing which you learned when you were serving in the British army, about speed and aggression, you put that to one side.	以及忘掉你在英国部队里 所学习的， 关于那些速度和激奋， 你要先放在一旁。
We want you to walk up the hill in another two days' time.	我们想让你花两天走上山。
Take some time to rest and think about things.	花点时间休息和思考。
We want you to walk up the mountain in two days' time, and instead of swimming fast, swim as slowly as possible.	我们想让你花两天走上山。 不要游的太快， 但是慢慢的游。
Instead of swimming crawl, swim breaststroke.	不用自由泳，但是用蛙泳。
And remember, never ever swim with aggression.	然后记住，不要游太激奋。
This is the time to swim with real humility.	是时候谦逊地 去游泳了。
And so we walked back up to the mountain two days later.	所以我们又走了回去 两天后回到山峰下。
And I stood there on the edge of the lake, and I looked up at Mt. Everest -- and she is one of the most beautiful mountains on the earth -- and I said to myself, just do this slowly.	我站在那 在湖的边缘， 然后望向珠峰 －－ 她是地球上最美丽的山峰之一 －－ 我就像这样慢慢的对我自己说道。
And I swam across the lake.	然后我游过了这个湖泊。
And I can't begin to tell you how good I felt when I came to the other side.	我无法告诉你们 当我到达湖的另一边时 我感觉有多好。
But I learned two very, very important lessons there on Mt. Everest, and I thank my team of Sherpas who taught me this.	但是我从珠峰学习到两个十分，十分 重要的教训。 我十分感谢我队伍中的夏尔巴告诉了我这些。
The first one is that just because something has worked in the past so well, doesn't mean it's going to work in the future.	第一个就是 一个事情无论原来是怎样的， 并不代表在未来就会怎样。
And similarly, now, before I do anything, I ask myself what type of mindset do I require to successfully complete a task.	相同的， 现在，在我做一件事情之前， 我问到我自己，我需要 怎样的一种态度 才能成功的完成我的任务。
And taking that into the world of climate change -- which is, frankly, the Mt. Everest of all problems -- just because we've lived the way we have lived for so long, just because we have consumed the way we have for so long and populated the earth the way we have for so long, doesn't mean that we can carry on the way we are carrying on.	然后这样来想一想气候变化， 那是，说实话， 珠峰和其他所有的问题－－ 不能因为我们已经像这样生活了这么长时间， 不能因为我们已经像这样消费了那么长时间 不能因为我们像这样人口增长了这么长时间， 就意味着我们可以这样像 以往一样坚持下去。
The warning signs are all there.	警告信号就在那。
When I was born, the world's population was 3.5 billion people.	当我出生时，世界的人口 只有35亿。
We're now 6.8 billion people, and we're expected to be 9 billion people by 2050.	现在有68亿 然后我们预计在2050年有 90亿。
And then the second lesson, the radical, tactical shift.	这里就有第二个教训， 剧烈的战术改变。
And I've come here to ask you today: what radical tactical shift can you take in your relationship to the environment, which will ensure that our children and our grandchildren live in a safe world and a secure world, and most importantly, in a sustainable world?	我今天来到这里问你们： 你在你的环境里 能做出怎样的剧烈的战术转变 才能保证 我们的子孙 能居住在一个安全的 一个保险的世界， 最重要的是，一个可持续发展的世界？
And I ask you, please, to go away from here and think about that one radical tactical shift which you could make, which will make that big difference, and then commit a hundred percent to doing it.	然后我要求你，请你们，从这里出发 然后想象 你要做怎样的 激进的战术变化， 才能做出巨大的改变， 如何下定决心去做。
Blog about it, tweet about it, talk about it, and commit a hundred percent, because very, very few things are impossible to achieve if we really put our whole minds to it.	些关于这些变化的博客，微博，谈论一下， 然后全身心投入。 因为如果我们 全身心投入，只有很少事情 是不可能的。
So thank you very, very much.	所以，十分感谢你们。
Today I'm going to unpack for you three examples of iconic design, and it makes perfect sense that I should be the one to do it because I have a Bachelor's degree in Literature.	今天我将给你们解析 3个现代标志性的设计案例， 我觉得自己是非常合适的人选 来解释这些 因为我有文学本科文凭。
But I'm also a famous minor television personality and an avid collector of Design Within Reach catalogs, so I pretty much know everything there is.	但是我在电视圈里 也是个小名人 和一个狂热的 设计作品收藏者， 所以我很清楚 这里面的猫腻。
Now, I'm sure you recognize this object; many of you probably saw it as you were landing your private zeppelins at Los Angeles International Airport over the past couple of days.	现在，我很确定你们 可以认出这个东西； 你们当中的很多人很有可能见过它 当你们的私人飞艇 在过去的几天里 降落在洛杉矶国际机场时。
This is known as the Theme Building; that is its name for reasons that are still very murky.	这个被称为主题大楼； 至于起这个名字的原因 至今不明。
And it is perhaps the best example we have in Los Angeles of ancient extraterrestrial architecture.	并且这也许是我们 在洛杉矶有 远古外星人建筑的最好实例。
It was first excavated in 1961 as they were building LAX, although scientists believe that it dates back to the year 2000 Before Common Era, when it was used as a busy transdimensional space port by the ancient astronauts who first colonized this planet and raised our species from savagery by giving us the gift of written language and technology and the gift of revolving restaurants.	它始建于1961年 也是洛杉矶国际机场在建时 尽管科学家们相信 它可以追溯到 公元前2000 年， 当时它被用作 一个繁忙的跨维空间港口， 那些远古宇航员们 他们首先开拓了这个殖民星球 让我们这些种族 脱离了野蛮， 并且教会了我们语言 和科技 还有送给我们这个空中餐厅作为礼物。
It is thought to have been a replacement for the older space ports located, of course, at Stonehenge and considered to be quite an improvement due to the uncluttered design, the lack of druids hanging around all the time and obviously, the much better access to parking.	它被认为是 一个古老太空港的替代品， 当然，古老太空港指的是巨石阵 并且它被认为是 一个经过改进的 干净的设计， 没有了周围德鲁伊教挂像， 并且显而易见的是，它有很方便进出的 停车场。
When it was uncovered, it ushered in a new era of streamlined, archaically futuristic design called Googie, which came to be synonymous with the Jet Age, a misnomer.	当它被建好后， 它引领了一个新设计时代， 即流线型古风的未来派设计 也叫做"古吉"派， 后来被等同于喷气机时代 是个错误的说法。
After all, the ancient astronauts who used it did not travel by jet very often, preferring instead to travel by feathered serpent powered by crystal skulls.	毕竟，古代宇航员并不常用 喷气式飞机旅行， 他们更喜欢乘坐 由水晶头骨驱动的羽蛇。
Ah yes, a table.	啊，是的，一张桌子。
We use these every day.	我们每天都会用的桌子。
And on top of it, the juicy salif.	还有在它的上面， 一个榨汁机。
This is a design by Philippe Starck, who I believe is in the audience at this very moment.	这是由菲利普·斯塔克设计的， 我相信现在他就在观众席里。
And you can tell it is a Starck design by its precision, its playfulness, its innovation and its promise of imminent violence.	你们一眼可以认出是斯塔克的设计 因为它的精致，趣味感, 创新性和 暴力临头感。
It is a design that challenges your intuition -- it is not what you think it is when you first see it.	这个设计很挑战你们的直觉 - 它不是你们一眼就能认出的东西。
It is not a fork designed to grab three hors d'oeuvres at a time, which would be useful out in the lobby, I would say.	它不是一个三脚叉 一次可以叉到三个开胃菜， 当然我想说这种三脚叉在外面休息室里 会有些作用。
And despite its obvious influence by the ancient astronauts and its space agey-ness and tripodism, it is not something designed to attach to your brain and suck out your thoughts.	尽管很明显,它的设计 受到远古外星人的影响 并且它很有宇宙太空感又是三角架样式， 但它不是设计用来 扎牢在你的大脑上 并且吸取你的思想。
It is in fact a citrus juicer and when I say that, you never see it as anything else again.	事实上它是一个榨汁机 一旦我说穿了， 你就再也不会认为它是别的什么东西了。
It is also not a monument to design, it is a monument to design's utility.	它不仅是是一个设计经典， 更是一个实用设计的典范。
You can take it home with you, unlike the Theme Building, which will stay where it is forever.	你可以拿它回家， 这与主题大楼不一样， 它将永远待在原址上。
This is affordable and can come home with you and, as such, it can sit on your kitchen counter -- it can't go in your drawers; trust me, I found that out the hard way -- and make your kitchen counter into a monument to design.	它很实惠 并且可以带回家， 就像这样，把它放到 厨房台面上 - 不要把它放到抽屉里； 相信我，我曾很努力的尝试过 - 并且它会把你的厨房台面 变成一个设计典范。
One other thing about it, if you do have one at home, let me tell you one of the features you may not know: when you fall asleep, it comes alive and it walks around your house and goes through your mail and watches you as you sleep.	另外， 如果你家里拥有一个这个， 让我告诉你一个你也许不知道的作用： 当你熟睡的时候， 它会活过来， 并且在你的房子里走来走去， 并且帮你查看信件， 并且在你睡觉的时候默默的看着你。
Okay, what is this object?	好吧，这是个什么东西？
I have no idea. I don't know what that thing is.	我没有一点头绪，我不知道这是什么。
It looks terrible. Is it a little hot plate?	它看起来很糟糕。是一块小电热板？
I don't get it.	我不清楚。
Does anyone know? Chi?	有没有人知道？琦？
It's an ... iPhone. iPhone.	它是...iPhone ，iPhone。
Oh yes, that's right, I remember those; I had my whole bathroom tiles redone with those back in the good old days.	哦，是的，是这样，我记起来了； 我曾把浴室里的瓷砖 都换成了它，在过去美好的日子里。（开个玩笑）
No, I have an iPhone. Of course I do.	不，我有iPhone。我当然有。
Here is my well-loved iPhone.	这是我非常喜欢的iPhone。
I do so many things on this little device.	这个小手机让我做很多很多事。
I like to read books on it.	我喜欢用它读书。
More than that, I like to buy books on it that I never have to feel guilty about not reading because they go in here and I never look at them again and it's perfect.	我更喜欢用它购买图书， 它不会让我感到不读书的内疚， 因为我把图书买到手机上后就再也不会看它们一眼， 这非常好。
I use it every day to measure the weight of an ox, for example.	我可以每天用它 举个例子， 称牛的重量。
Every now and then, I admit that I complete a phone call on it occasionally.	我承认 不时地， 我会偶尔用它打个电话。
And yet I forget about it all the time.	好在我还没有完全忘记这个功能。
This is a design that once you saw it, you forgot about it.	这个设计就是 当你第一眼看到它时， 你会忘记它。
It is easy to forget the gasp-inducement that occurred in 2007 when you first touched this thing because it became so quickly pervasive and because of how instantly we adopted these gestures and made it an extension of our life.	它很容易就被忘记 发生在2007年的你第一次触摸它时的震惊感， 因为它普及的 太快了， 并且因为不知不觉间 我们已经习惯这些手势操作 并且成为我们日常生活的一部分。
Unlike the Theme Building, this is not alien technology.	不像主题大楼， 它不是外星科技。
Or I should say, what it did was it took technology which, unlike people in this room, to many other people in the world, still feels very alien, and made it immediately and instantly feel familiar and intimate.	或者我应该说， 它所做的是应用这些高科技—— 不同于在座的各位， 对于世界上其他人来说， 还是会感到非常陌生,，如同外星科技般的技术—— 并让这项高科技很快上手 并被人熟悉使用。
And unlike the juicy salif, it does not threaten to attach itself to your brain, rather, it simply attaches itself to your brain.	而且不像榨汁机设计， 有一种强加于 你大脑之上的胁迫， 它是自然而然的 附加到了你的大脑上。
And you didn't even notice it happened.	并且你并没有注意到这种情况已经发生了。
So there you go. My name is John Hodgman.	就说这么多了。我的名字叫约翰･霍奇曼。
I just explained design.	刚才我解释了设计。
Thank you very much.	非常感激。
So I thought, "I will talk about death."	我原先在想：「我会谈论死亡。」
Seemed to be the passion today.	那似乎是我今天要跟你分享的主题。
Actually, it's not about death.	但事实上，我将分享的与死亡无关。
It's inevitable, terrible, but really what I want to talk about is, I'm just fascinated by the legacy people leave when they die.	死亡是不可避免而又令人愄惧的，但我真正想谈论的是 我被人们死去时所留下的遗产吸引着
That's what I want to talk about.	这就是我想分享的主题。
So Art Buchwald left his legacy of humor with a video that appeared soon after he died, saying, "Hi! I'm Art Buchwald, and I just died."	如包可华 透过影像留下他那一丝幽默 影带在他死后随即出现，说着： 「嗨! 我是包可华，我刚刚死了。」
And Mike, who I met at Galapagos, a trip which I won at TED, is leaving notes on cyberspace where he is chronicling his journey through cancer.	我透过TED的旅程，在加拉巴哥遇到米可 当时他透过互联网在个人空间上记述 他患上癌症的经历。
And my father left me a legacy of his handwriting through letters and a notebook.	而我的父亲则透过一些信件和一本记事本 留下他那手写的遗产。
In the last two years of his life, when he was sick, he filled a notebook with his thoughts about me.	爸爸在他生命中的最后两年，在生病的状态中， 把他对我的看法都写满在记事本上。
He wrote about my strengths, weaknesses, and gentle suggestions for improvement, quoting specific incidents, and held a mirror to my life.	他写下我的长处和短处 并提出一些能助我改正的方法 同时亦引用特殊的例子，为我的生活提供反思。
After he died, I realized that no one writes to me anymore.	在他离世后，我发现没有人再写信给我了。
Handwriting is a disappearing art.	书写这门艺术正渐渐地消失。
I'm all for email and thinking while typing, but why give up old habits for new?	我平日会用电子邮件，也会一面思考一面打字 但为何要为了新的事物而舍弃旧有的习惯?
Why can't we have letter writing and email exchange in our lives?	为何书信和电子邮件不能与我们的生活融合在一起?
There are times when I want to trade all those years that I was too busy to sit with my dad and chat with him, and trade all those years for one hug.	有一段时间我因为太忙碌而没有坐下来跟我父亲聊聊天 有时，我真的很想换回那几年 然后再以那些时光来换爸爸的一个拥抱。
But too late.	可是已经太迟了。
But that's when I take out his letters and I read them, and the paper that touched his hand is in mine, and I feel connected to him.	但每当我拿出并细阅他的信 我感到与他紧密相连, 因为他触摸过的那张信纸就在我手中。
So maybe we all need to leave our children with a value legacy, and not a financial one.	也许，我们需要留给我们的孩子的不是金钱上的遗产 而是那种拥有真正的价值和意义的遗产。
A value for things with a personal touch -- an autograph book, a soul-searching letter.	透过触碰去留下有价值的物品-- 一本手写书，一封真摰的信。
If a fraction of this powerful TED audience could be inspired to buy a beautiful paper -- John, it'll be a recycled one -- and write a beautiful letter to someone they love, we actually may start a revolution where our children may go to penmanship classes.	假如这些甚有影响力的TED观众的其中小部分 能被感动而去买一张漂亮的纸-- 约翰，那会是一张环保再生纸-- 然后写一封美丽的信 给他们深爱的人，我们或许要开始实行一个大变革 让我们的孩子去上手写课。
So what do I plan to leave for my son?	那么，我应该留些什么给我的儿子呢？
I collect autograph books, and those of you authors in the audience know I hound you for them -- and CDs too, Tracy.	我在搜集手写书, 同时也在搜集一些唱片, 翠丝。 而坐在观众席上的一些作家都知道 我正为这出版的事宜而紧跟著他们--
I plan to publish my own notebook.	我亦计画出版自己的笔记。
As I witnessed my father's body being swallowed by fire, I sat by his funeral pyre and wrote.	在我目睹我父亲的遗体被火吞噬时， 我坐在他葬礼的柴火旁，写下
I have no idea how I'm going to do it, but I am committed to compiling his thoughts and mine into a book, and leave that published book for my son.	我不知道我将如何过日子 但后来我决定要将他和我的一些想法 辑录成一本书、出版, 然后留给我的儿子。
I'd like to end with a few verses of what I wrote at my father's cremation.	我想以一首我在父亲葬礼中写的短诗 来结束今天的分享。
And those linguists, please pardon the grammar, because I've not looked at it in the last 10 years.	语言学学者们, 请饶恕我的文法 因为我至少有十年没读到这首诗了。
I took it out for the first time to come here.	这是我第一次将它公开在这里。
"Picture in a frame, ashes in a bottle, boundless energy confined in the bottle, forcing me to deal with reality, forcing me to deal with being grown up.	「在相框中的照片,在瓮里的骨灰, 无穷的力量被紧封于瓮内 它迫使我面对现实 迫使我逐渐成长。
I hear you and I know that you would want me to be strong, but right now, I am being sucked down, surrounded and suffocated by these raging emotional waters, craving to cleanse my soul, trying to emerge on a firm footing one more time, to keep on fighting and flourishing just as you taught me.	我确实听到你的话, 而我知道你想我坚强 但此刻, 我被这些肆虐的情绪浪潮 吞没、包围，这一切令我窒息 就如你所敎导一样 我渴望我的灵魂能被洗涤, 让我能尝试浮出水面 再一次踏稳每一步, 继续奋斗和茁壮地成长。
Your encouraging whispers in my whirlpool of despair, holding me and heaving me to shores of sanity, to live again and to love again."	当我陷入绝望的漩涡时, 我听到你在我耳边低声鼓励我、 扶持我、并把我拉到岸边, 使我清醒, 让我能重生和再次去爱。」
Thank you.	谢谢。
I've always written primarily about architecture, about buildings, and writing about architecture is based on certain assumptions.	我主要会写些关于建筑 关于楼房的东西 那些作品是基于某些假设。
An architect designs a building, and it becomes a place, or many architects design many buildings, and it becomes a city, and regardless of this complicated mix of forces of politics and culture and economics that shapes these places, at the end of the day, you can go and you can visit them. You can walk around them.	建筑师设计一座大楼 变成一个地点 或很多建筑师设计很多座大楼 变成一个城市 先不去考虑这些复杂的力量掺杂在一起 比如政治的 文化的 经济的， 它们塑造 这些地点， 最终你都能 去参观它们。 你可以在它们周围走一走
You can smell them. You can get a feel for them.	你可以闻一闻它们的气息。 你可以感受一下它们
You can experience their sense of place.	你可以体验一下它们的存在
But what was striking to me over the last several years was that less and less was I going out into the world, and more and more, I was sitting in front of my computer screen.	但近年来让我吃惊的是 我越来越少出门走向世界 越来越多地坐在我的电脑屏幕前
And especially since about 2007, when I got an iPhone, I was not only sitting in front of my screen all day, but I was also getting up at the end of the day and looking at this little screen that I carried in my pocket.	特别是从大概2007年开始，那时我有了一台iPhone 我不止整天坐在自己的电脑屏幕前面 我还在一天结束的时候 盯着我放在口袋里带着的这个小屏幕
And what was surprising to me was how quickly my relationship to the physical world had changed.	让我吃惊的是 我和实体世界的关系多么迅速地发生了改变
In this very short period of time, you know, whether you call it the last 15 years or so of being online, or the last, you know, four or five years of being online all the time, our relationship to our surroundings had changed in that our attention is constantly divided. You know, we're both looking inside the screens and we're looking out in the world around us.	在很短的时间里，你知道， 不管你是说过去在线的15年 或是近期总是在线的四五年 我们和周围的关系已经大为改变： 我们的注意力一直受到分散 我们既看着这些屏幕 我们也看着身边的世界
And what was even more striking to me, and what I really got hung up on, was that the world inside the screen seemed to have no physical reality of its own.	让我更加吃惊 更不安的是 屏幕里的世界 似乎没有任何实体存在。
If you went and looked for images of the Internet, this was all that you found, this famous image by Opte of the Internet as the kind of Milky Way, this infinite expanse where we don't seem to be anywhere on it.	如果你去找因特网的影像 这就是你会找到的 这张非常有名的欧普特影像 就像银河系一样 无限延伸 我们似乎不在上面
We can never seem to grasp it in its totality.	我们永远都不能抓住它的整体
It's always reminded me of the Apollo image of the Earth, the blue marble picture, and it's similarly meant to suggest, I think, that we can't really understand it as a whole.	它常让我想起阿波罗号所拍的地球照片 那张蓝色大理石也似乎意味着 我认为，我们不能真正的理解地球这个整体
We're always sort of small in the face of its expanse.	我们在无限之下显得非常渺小
So if there was this world and this screen, and if there was the physical world around me, I couldn't ever get them together in the same place.	所以即使存在这样的网络世界和这屏幕上的世界 如果它真的是围绕着我的实体世界 我甚至不能在同一个地方找到它
And then this happened.	然后发生了一件事
My Internet broke one day, as it occasionally does, and the cable guy came to fix it, and he started with the dusty clump of cables behind the couch, and he followed it to the front of my building and into the basement and out to the back yard, and there was this big jumble of cables against the wall.	我的因特网某天断线了 它有时会这样 电线维修员来修理 他开始着手 先从沙发后面的布满灰尘的电线堆里 沿着它到了我房子的前面下了地下室到了后院外面 墙上有很大一捆杂乱的电线
And then he saw a squirrel running along the wire, and he said, "There's your problem.	然后他看到一只松鼠沿着电线跑动 他说 "那就是问题所在
A squirrel is chewing on your Internet."	有松鼠在咀嚼着你的因特网"
And this seemed astounding. The Internet is a transcendent idea. It's a set of protocols that has changed everything from shopping to dating to revolutions.	真让人吃惊 因特网是 一个卓越的构思 它是一系列的协议改变了 一切从购物到约会到革命的事
It was unequivocally not something a squirrel could chew on.	它绝然不是 一只松鼠可以咀嚼的事
But that in fact seemed to be the case.	但事实上情况就是如此
A squirrel had in fact chewed on my Internet.	真的有只松鼠在咀嚼我的因特网
And then I got this image in my head of what would happen if you yanked the wire from the wall and if you started to follow it. Where would it go?	我头脑中就有这么一幅将可能发生的画面 如果你从墙上把电线扯下来 如果你试着 沿着它走 会到哪里呢
Was the Internet actually a place that you could visit?	因特网真是一个你可以到达的地方吗
Could I go there? Who would I meet?	我能到那吗 我会和谁见面
You know, was there something actually out there?	真的有这么一个地方吗
And the answer, by all accounts, was no.	答案是人人都说没有
This was the Internet, this black box with a red light on it, as represented in the sitcom "The IT Crowd."	这就是因特网 这个带着红色灯的黑盒子 正如情景喜剧"IT狂人"里所显示的
Normally it lives on the top of Big Ben, because that's where you get the best reception, but they had negotiated that their colleague could borrow it for the afternoon to use in an office presentation.	通常它会放在大笨钟的最高处 因为那里是接收信号最好的地方 但他们谈到过他们的同事可以 在某个下午将它借去在办公室展示的时候使用
The elders of the Internet were willing to part with it for a short while, and she looks at it and she says, "This is the Internet? The whole Internet? Is it heavy?"	因特网的资深用户愿意和它分开 一会儿 她看着盒子说 "这就是因特网吗 整个因特网 它重吗"
They say, "Of course not, the Internet doesn't weigh anything."	他们回答 "当然不重 因特网没有任何重量"
And I was embarrassed. I was looking for this thing that only fools seem to look for.	我感到很羞愧 我正在找的东西 只有傻瓜才会去寻找
The Internet was that amorphous blob, or it was a silly black box with a blinking red light on it.	因特网是无形的 或者它是 一个闪着红灯的黑盒子
It wasn't a real world out there.	它不是一个真实的世界
But, in fact, it is. There is a real world of the Internet out there, and that's what I spent about two years visiting, these places of the Internet. I was in large data centers that use as much power as the cities in which they sit, and I visited places like this, 60 Hudson Street in New York, which is one of the buildings in the world, one of a very short list of buildings, about a dozen buildings, where more networks of the Internet connect to each other than anywhere else.	但事实上它是一个真实的世界 确实有因特网的真实世界 也就是我花费了过去两年时间到访的 因特网的所在地 我在大型的数据中心 它们使用和所在城市一样多的能源 我参观了类似这样的地方，比如纽约的哈德逊街60号 它是一栋大楼 名单中仅有的十几座中的其中一座 那里是大量的网络连接彼此 的地方——比别处的连接更多
And that connection is an unequivocally physical process.	这样的连接确实是个有形的过程
It's about the router of one network, a Facebook or a Google or a B.T. or a Comcast or a Time Warner, whatever it is, connecting with usually a yellow fiber optic cable up into the ceiling and down into the router of another network, and that's unequivocally physical, and it's surprisingly intimate.	那关乎着网络的路由器 比如面书或 谷歌或B.T.或康卡斯特或时代华纳 不管是什么 通常连接着黄色的光纤电缆 上至天花板一直到其他网络路由器 那通常都是有形的且是密切联系的
A building like 60 Hudson, and a dozen or so others, has 10 times more networks connecting within it than the next tier of buildings.	像哈德逊街60号的大楼和其他十几栋或其他大楼 里面有超过十倍那么多的网络连接着它 相较其他大楼而言
There's a very short list of these places.	这些大楼不是很少
And 60 Hudson in particular is interesting because it's home to about a half a dozen very important networks, which are the networks which serve the undersea cables that travel underneath the ocean that connect Europe and America and connect all of us.	哈德逊街60号特别有趣是因为它是 近六个重要网络连接的总部 这些网络连接海底电缆 网络穿过海底 连接欧洲和美洲 连接我们所有人
And it's those cables in particular that I want to focus on.	我特别想谈谈那些电缆
If the Internet is a global phenomenon, if we live in a global village, it's because there are cables underneath the ocean, cables like this.	如果因特网是个全球现象 如果我们活 在地球村里 那是因为有电缆 在海底 像这样的电缆
And in this dimension, they are incredibly small.	从这个角度看 他们真的非常小
You can you hold them in your hand. They're like a garden hose.	你可以用手握着它们 他们就像花园软管一样
But in the other dimension they are incredibly expansive, as expansive as you can imagine.	但从另一个角度看 他们非常广阔 就如你能想象的那般广阔
They stretch across the ocean. They're three or five or eight thousand miles in length, and if the material science and the computational technology is incredibly complicated, the basic physical process is shockingly simple. Light goes in on one end of the ocean and comes out on the other, and it usually comes from a building called a landing station that's often tucked away inconspicuously in a little seaside neighborhood, and there are amplifiers that sit on the ocean floor that look kind of like bluefin tuna, and every 50 miles they amplify the signal, and since the rate of transmission is incredibly fast, the basic unit is a 10-gigabit-per-second wavelength of light, maybe a thousand times your own connection, or capable of carrying 10,000 video streams, but not only that, but you'll put not just one wavelength of light through one of the fibers, but you'll put maybe 50 or 60 or 70 different wavelengths or colors of light through a single fiber, and then you'll have maybe eight fibers in a cable, four going in each direction.	它们在大海里延伸 它们有三或五 或八千英里那么长 如果说材料科学和计算机技术 是无比复杂的 当中的基本物理过程 却是惊人的简单 灯光从海的一边进去 再从另一边出来 通常是从 一座叫作坐落站的大楼出来 常在临近海边不显眼的地方妥善保存起来 在海床设有增强器 它们看起来像蓝鳍吞拿 每50英里 它们会增强信号 由于传播速度 无比迅速 基本单位是每秒10千兆比特 光波 也许是你连接速度的一千倍 或能承载1万个视频流 但不止那样 你不会只把一个光波 放在一条光纤里 你也许会在一根光纤里放 50或60或70个不同波长或颜色的光波 然后你也许会 在一个电缆里放8个光纤 四个又分散到不同方向
And they're tiny. They're the thickness of a hair.	它们很细小 就像头发那么粗
And then they connect to the continent somewhere.	它们可以连接到大陆的某个地方
They connect in a manhole like this. Literally, this is where the 5,000-mile cable plugs in.	它们会在沙井里面连接起来 像这样。 实际上 这是5千英里电缆接入的地方
This is in Halifax, a cable that stretches from Halifax to Ireland.	这里是哈利法克斯 电缆从这里延伸到爱尔兰
And the landscape is changing. Three years ago, when I started thinking about this, there was one cable down the Western coast of Africa, represented in this map by Steve Song as that thin black line.	景观在变化 三年前 当我开始思考这个问题的时候 有一条电缆 连接到非洲的西岸 也就是Steve Song这个地图上的小黑线
Now there are six cables and more coming, three down each coast.	现在已经有六条电缆 还会有更多 三条连接到东岸
Because once a country gets plugged in by one cable, they realize that it's not enough. If they're going to build an industry around it, they need to know that their connection isn't tenuous but permanent, because if a cable breaks, you have to send a ship out into the water, throw a grappling hook over the side, pick it up, find the other end, and then fuse the two ends back together and then dump it over.	因为一旦一个国家连接了一条电缆 他们会意识到这是不足够的 如果他们想在 电缆周围建立工业 他们需要知道他们的连接 不是脆弱的而是永久的 因为如果一个电缆断了 你得派船到海中央 扔个抓钩 钩起一头电缆 再勾起另一头 然后把两端焊接在一起 再把它丢到海里
It's an intensely, intensely physical process.	这真是个很折腾的物理过程
So this is my friend Simon Cooper, who until very recently worked for Tata Communications, the communications wing of Tata, the big Indian industrial conglomerate.	这是我的朋友Simon Cooper 他最近 在Tata通讯公司工作 Tata通讯部 大型印度工业企业集团
And I've never met him. We've only communicated via this telepresence system, which always makes me think of him as the man inside the Internet.	我和他没有见过面 我们只是 视频通话 这常让我觉得 他是因特网里面的人
And he is English. The undersea cable industry is dominated by Englishmen, and they all seem to be 42.	他是英国人 海底电缆工业 是由英国人主导的 他们大多看起来像42岁
Because they all started at the same time with the boom about 20 years ago.	因为他们都在同一时间入行 从20年前的兴盛时期开始的
And Tata had gotten its start as a communications business when they bought two cables, one across the Atlantic and one across the Pacific, and proceeded to add pieces onto them, until they had built a belt around the world, which means they will send your bits to the East or the West.	Tata是以通讯业起家的 一开始他们买了两条电缆 一条横跨大西洋 一条横跨太平洋并继续完善它们 直到它们连接了整个世界 这意味着他们会把你的比特信息传送到东方或西方
They have -- this is literally a beam of light around the world, and if a cable breaks in the Pacific, it'll send it around the other direction. And then having done that, they started to look for places to wire next.	他们有真的是有一束环绕地球的光 如果有电缆在太平洋中断开了 它会把光发送到 另一个方向 这么做以后 他们就开始寻找下一个连线的地方
They looked for the unwired places, and that's meant North and South, primarily these cables to Africa.	他们会寻找没有连线的地方 那意味着 北方或者南方 首先要连去非洲
But what amazes me is Simon's incredible geographic imagination.	让我惊奇的是Simon有非凡的地理想象力
He thinks about the world with this incredible expansiveness.	他想象中的世界无限延伸
And I was particularly interested because I wanted to see one of these cables being built. See, you know, all the time online we experience these fleeting moments of connection, these sort of brief adjacencies, a tweet or a Facebook post or an email, and it seemed like there was a physical corollary to that.	我非常好奇是因为我想看看 这些电缆是怎么建起来的 一直以来 上网的时候我们可以体验到这种一闪而过的迅速连网 这些轻易连接 一个推特或 一个面书贴子 或是一封电邮 似乎都有一个实体存在
It seemed like there was a moment when the continent was being plugged in, and I wanted to see that.	似乎有这么一个时刻当大陆 被连接起来 我想看看那个过程
And Simon was working on a new cable, WACS, the West Africa Cable System, that stretched from Lisbon down the west coast of Africa, to Cote d'Ivoire, to Ghana, to Nigeria, to Cameroon.	Simon在负责者一条新电缆 西非电缆体系 从里斯本延伸到非洲西海岸 到科特迪瓦 加纳 奈及利亚 及喀麦隆
And he said there was coming soon, depending on the weather, but he'd let me know when, and so with about four days notice, he said to go to this beach south of Lisbon, and a little after 9, this guy will walk out of the water.	他说很快就会开始搭建 取决于 天气 他会告诉我具体时间 大概提前4天 他通知我前往 里斯本南部的这个海滩 大概9点以后 有个人从海里走出来
And he'll be carrying a green nylon line, a lightweight line, called a messenger line, and that was the first link between sea and land, this link that would then be leveraged into this 9,000-mile path of light.	他会带着绿色的尼龙绳 非常轻的绳子 那叫做悬缆线 那线首先连接 大海和陆地 接着会被 连接到这9千英里的光的通道
Then a bulldozer began to pull the cable in from this specialized cable landing ship, and it was floated on these buoys until it was in the right place.	接着推土机开始把电缆拉起来 通过这艘专门的电缆安装船 电缆会浮动在 这些浮标上直到它在正确的位置
Then you can see the English engineers looking on.	接着你会看见一个英国工程师在探视
And then, once it was in the right place, he got back in the water holding a big knife, and he cut each buoy off, and the buoy popped up into the air, and the cable dropped to the sea floor, and he did that all the way out to the ship, and when he got there, they gave him a glass of juice and a cookie, and then he jumped back in, and he swam back to shore, and then he lit a cigarette.	一旦电缆放对了地方 他就回到 水中手握一把大刀 切掉每个浮标 浮标升上天空 电缆 掉进海床 他沿途一直这么做 直到船变边 到了船边 他们递给他一杯果汁和一块曲奇 接着他再跳到水中 游回岸边 然后他点了根烟
And then once that cable was on shore, they began to prepare to connect it to the other side, for the cable that had been brought down from the landing station.	当电缆拉到海岸边 他们准备把它连接到另一端 连接从陆地站拉过来的电缆
And first they got it with a hacksaw, and then they start sort of shaving away at this plastic interior with a -- sort of working like chefs, and then finally they're working like jewelers to get these hair-thin fibers to line up with the cable that had come down, and with this hole-punch machine they fuse it together.	一开始他们带着钢锯 然后刮掉塑料内层 像厨师一样工作 最后 他们像珠宝商一样把像头发般细小的纤维绑在 拉下来的电缆上 用这台打孔机把他们焊在一起
And when you see these guys going at this cable with a hacksaw, you stop thinking about the Internet as a cloud.	当你看到这些人用钢锯处理电缆的时候 你不会把因特网想象像云一样虚无
It starts to seem like an incredibly physical thing.	它似乎变成了非常有形的东西
And what surprised me as well was that as much as this is based on the most sophisticated technology, as much as this is an incredibly new thing, the physical process itself has been around for a long time, and the culture is the same.	让我同样吃惊的是 基于这无比复杂的技术 这是无比新兴的事物 它的物理过程 本身是需要很长的时间 背后的文化是一样的
You see the local laborers. You see the English engineer giving directions in the background. And more importantly, the places are the same. These cables still connect these classic port cities, places like Lisbon, Mombasa, Mumbai, Singapore, New York.	你看到了当地的劳工 你看到英国工程师 在后方给出指示 更重要的是 很多地方是一样的 电缆依旧连接着 这些经典的港口城市 像里斯本 蒙巴萨 孟买 新加坡 纽约
And then the process on shore takes around three or four days, and then, when it's done, they put the manhole cover back on top, and they push the sand over that, and we all forget about it.	岸上的过程需时三或四天 做好后 他们把沙井盖 盖上 把沙推到上面掩盖 把这一切都忘掉
And it seems to me that we talk a lot about the cloud, but every time we put something on the cloud, we give up some responsibility for it.	似乎我们老在讲云端的东西 每次我们把一些东西放到云端里 我们丢下了一些责任
We are less connected to it. We let other people worry about it.	我们很少去关注它 我们让其他人去担心它
And that doesn't seem right.	那是不对的
There's a great Neal Stephenson line where he says that wired people should know something about wires.	著名的尼尔·斯蒂芬森曾经说过 连网的人应该知道网线的事
And we should know, I think, we should know where our Internet comes from, and we should know what it is that physically, physically connects us all.	我们应该知道 我认为 我们应该知道 我们的英特网从哪里来 我们应该知道 是什么东西实体上连接着我们所有人
Thank you.	谢谢
Thanks.	谢谢
A human child is born, and for quite a long time is a consumer.	当一个新生命刚来到世间， 在很长一段时间内 他只能是一位消费者。
It cannot be consciously a contributor.	他无法成为一名主动贡献者。
It is helpless.	他是无助的。
It doesn't know how to survive, even though it is endowed with an instinct to survive.	他甚至不知如何才能活下来， 尽管人人都生而有生存的本能。
It needs the help of mother, or a foster mother, to survive.	他需要母亲或养母的帮助才能活下来。
It can't afford to doubt the person who tends the child.	他也没有能力质疑任何照顾他的人。
It has to totally surrender, as one surrenders to an anesthesiologist.	他必须完全顺从， 就像病人必须屈服于麻醉师一样，
It has to totally surrender.	完全彻底地屈服。
That implies a lot of trust.	这样的屈服中也包含着无比的信任，
That implies the trusted person won't violate the trust.	意味着被信任的人 永远不会背叛这种信任。
As the child grows, it begins to discover that the person trusted is violating the trust.	当这个孩子逐渐长大， 他开始意识到 他所信任的人在背叛他的信任。
It doesn't know even the word "violation."	但他此时还并不知道有"背叛"一词的存在，
Therefore, it has to blame itself, a wordless blame, which is more difficult to really resolve -- the wordless self-blame.	因此他只能怪罪自己。 这种默默的自责， 比责备他人更让人难受， 只是默默的自责。
As the child grows to become an adult: so far, it has been a consumer, but the growth of a human being lies in his or her capacity to contribute, to be a contributor.	有一天孩子终于长大成人了。 在这此前他一直是名消费者。 但一个人的成长 最终取决于他们贡献能力的大小， 也就是说成为一个贡献者。
One cannot contribute unless one feels secure, one feels big, one feels: I have enough.	但只有当一个人有安全感、 感觉到强大有力、 感觉到自己已足已之时[方能开始做贡献]。
To be compassionate is not a joke.	拥有同情心并非儿戏。
It's not that simple.	知之易，行却难。
One has to discover a certain bigness in oneself.	你必须能发现自身在某方面足够强大，
That bigness should be centered on oneself, not in terms of money, not in terms of power you wield, not in terms of any status that you can command in the society, but it should be centered on oneself.	这种"强大"必存乎于心， 而非金钱， 亦非权力， 也非你所拥有的社会地位。 它必是基于人自身的。
The self: you are self-aware.	自我，你要能认识到自我。
On that self, it should be centered -- a bigness, a wholeness.	正是这个"自我"拥有着一种强大，一种完整。
Otherwise, compassion is just a word and a dream.	否则，同情心只是一虚物而已。
You can be compassionate occasionally, more moved by empathy than by compassion.	你可以时不时地感受到自己在同情别人， 但这更多的只是理解别人[或者站在对方的角度思考问题] 而不是真正的同情。
Thank God we are empathetic.	感谢上帝让我们都懂得去同情别人，
When somebody's in pain, we pick up the pain.	让我们感同身受。
In a Wimbledon final match, these two guys fight it out.	在温布尔登的决赛场上， 两位球员全力以赴，
Each one has got two games.	比赛打到2：2的时候，
It can be anybody's game.	谁都有可能赢得最后的胜利，
What they have sweated so far has no meaning.	似乎之前流的汗都毫无意义了。
One person wins.	最后其中的一位赢了。
The tennis etiquette is, both the players have to come to the net and shake hands.	根据比赛礼仪，结束后两个人都要走到球网前 握手致意。
The winner boxes the air and kisses the ground, throws his shirt as though somebody is waiting for it.	胜者挥拳庆祝、 亲吻大地、 脱下衣服扔向空中，就好像有人在等着接那件衣服。
And this guy has to come to the net.	但最终他必须走到网前。
When he comes to the net, you see, his whole face changes.	当他走近的时候， 你可以看到他的表情来了个180度大转变。
It looks as though he's wishing that he didn't win.	他这时看起来就好像宁愿输掉比赛一样。
Why? Empathy.	为什么？因为同情。
That's human heart.	这是人的恻隐之心。
No human heart is denied of that empathy.	每个人都有这样的恻隐之心。
No religion can demolish that by indoctrination.	宗教无法改变这一事实，
No culture, no nation and nationalism -- nothing can touch it because it is empathy.	任何文化、任何国家和民族都不能， 什么都不能带走人的恻隐之心。 因为这就是同情心。
And that capacity to empathize is the window through which you reach out to people, you do something that makes a difference in somebody's life -- even words, even time.	这种同情别人的能力 是你接近别人的一扇窗户， 是你帮助别人改变生活的一个途径。 哪怕只是几句话，或者一起度过的时光。
Compassion is not defined in one form.	同情心有很多种形式。
There's no Indian compassion.	但并没有印度同情心
There's no American compassion.	或者美国同情心一说。
It transcends nation, the gender, the age.	同情心是跨越国界、性别和年龄的。
Why? Because it is there in everybody.	为什么？因为它只存乎于心。
It's experienced by people occasionally.	它时不时地被我们感受到。
Then this occasional compassion, we are not talking about -- it will never remain occasional.	但这种偶尔发生的同情心， 不是我们要说的。 同情心不可能是偶发的。
By mandate, you cannot make a person compassionate.	你无法强迫一个人拥有同情心。
You can't say, "Please love me."	你不能对他说："请你一定要爱我"。
Love is something you discover.	爱是需要你去发现的。
It's not an action, but in the English language, it is also an action.	它并不是一个简单的动作。 但在英语中，"爱"确实是一个动词。
I will come to it later.	这个容我压后再谈。
So one has got to discover a certain wholeness.	一个人必须要在自己身上发现一种"完整"。
I am going to cite the possibility of being whole, which is within our experience, everybody's experience.	现在我要说的就是达到这种"完整"状态的可能性。 这种可能性存在于我们的经历，每个人过去所经历的事情。
In spite of a very tragic life, one is happy in moments which are very few and far between.	即便一个人的生活极其苦难， 他时不时的还是会有少许快乐的时刻。
And the one who is happy, even for a slapstick joke, accepts himself and also the scheme of things in which one finds oneself.	经历快乐时刻的人， 哪怕只是因为一个低级趣味的笑话， 从心底里是接纳自己的，并同时接纳存在于他周围的一切。
That means the whole universe, known things and unknown things.	这"一切"意味着整个宇宙， 已知的和未知的所有事物。
All of them are totally accepted because you discover your wholeness in yourself.	所有这一切都被完全接纳。 因为他发现了自己的"完整"。
The subject -- "me" -- and the object -- the scheme of things -- fuse into oneness, an experience nobody can say, "I am denied of," an experience common to all and sundry.	作为主体的"我" 和作为客体的世间万物 融为了一个整体。 这种体验没有人敢说自己没有过。 这是天下所有人的共同体验。
That experience confirms that, in spite of all your limitations -- all your wants, desires, unfulfilled, and the credit cards and layoffs and, finally, baldness -- you can be happy.	这一体验给我们证明了一个道理：尽管人有各种各种的自身限制、 需求、欲望、未能实现的理想，信用卡的钱要还， 还有公司裁人的威胁， 再加上越来越严重的谢顶问题， 但你还是可以快乐起来的。
But the extension of the logic is that you don't need to fulfill your desire to be happy.	这也就是说， 你不需要非得满足什么欲望才能快乐。
You are the very happiness, the wholeness that you want to be.	你自己正是你快乐的源泉，你自己就是你所追求的"完整"。
There's no choice in this: that only confirms the reality that the wholeness cannot be different from you, cannot be minus you.	这并没有什么好选择的， 它只说明了这样一个事实： 你的完整性就是你自己， 它不可能只是你的一部分，
It has got to be you.	它必须就是你；
You cannot be a part of wholeness and still be whole.	你也不可能只是你的完整性的一部分， 而同时还能保持一个整体。
Your moment of happiness reveals that reality, that realization, that recognition: "Maybe I am the whole.	你经历的快乐时刻就是在向你揭示这样的一个事实、 一种顿悟和认识。 也许我就是完整的，
Maybe the swami is right.	也许尊者说的是对的，
Maybe the swami is right." You start your new life.	他说的是有道理的。你从此开始了一种新的生活，
Then everything becomes meaningful.	你发现一切都变得有意义起来。
I have no more reason to blame myself.	我不再有责怪自己的理由。
If one has to blame oneself, one has a million reasons plus many.	如果一个人想责怪自己，他总能想出几十万个理由来。
But if I say, in spite of my body being limited -- if it is black it is not white, if it is white it is not black: body is limited any which way you look at it. Limited.	但如果我说，尽管我有诸多的自身限制， 黑的就是黑的，白的就是白的。 人的身体是有极限的，不管你从哪个角度去看它。
Your knowledge is limited, health is limited, and power is therefore limited, and the cheerfulness is going to be limited.	你的知识是有限的，健康也是有限的， 从而人的能力也是有限的， 快乐程度也是受限制的，
Compassion is going to be limited.	同情心也有限，
Everything is going to be limitless.	万事万物都是无限的。
You cannot command compassion unless you become limitless, and nobody can become limitless, either you are or you are not. Period.	你不能强求同情心， 除非你自己变得无限强大。然而没有人能"变得"无限强大。 你要么受限制要么无限强大。就是这样。
And there is no way of your being not limitless too.	然而另一方面，你也很难做到不"无限强大"。
Your own experience reveals, in spite of all limitations, you are the whole.	你自己的体验告诉你，尽管你受诸多限制，但你还是完整的你。
And the wholeness is the reality of you when you relate to the world.	这种完整性是你要面对的现实， 当你与这个世界打交道的时候。
It is love first.	爱总是第一位的。
When you relate to the world, the dynamic manifestation of the wholeness is, what we say, love.	当你生活在这个世界上， 你的完整性就体现在 我们所说的爱。
And itself becomes compassion if the object that you relate to evokes that emotion.	然后这个爱就会自动转化成 对激发起这种爱的事物的同情心，
Then that again transforms into giving, into sharing.	而同情心又能够转化成给予和分享。
You express yourself because you have compassion.	有了同情心，你就希望能表达出来。
To discover compassion, you need to be compassionate.	要发现自己的同情心，你需要试着去同情别人。
To discover the capacity to give and share, you need to be giving and sharing.	要发现自己给予和分享的能力， 你需要试着去给予和分享。
There is no shortcut: it is like swimming by swimming.	这没有什么捷径，就像是你要想学会游泳，就必须到水里去实践。
You learn swimming by swimming.	想学游泳就得下水去游。
You cannot learn swimming on a foam mattress and enter into water.	不能指望着能在一块海绵垫子上学会游泳。
You learn swimming by swimming. You learn cycling by cycling.	从游泳中学游泳，从骑车中学骑车。
You learn cooking by cooking, having some sympathetic people around you to eat what you cook.	从做饭中学做饭。 找一些有同情心的人 来品尝你做的食物。
And, therefore, what I say, you have to fake it and make it.	所以，其实我说的意思就是， 你必须假装会干一件事情，然后慢慢就真的会干了。
You need to.	你的确需要这样做。
My predecessor meant that.	前人已经说过类似的话。
You have to act it out.	你必须去实践。
You have to act compassionately.	必须实践如何去同情别人。
There is no verb for compassion, but you have an adverb for compassion.	英语里没有表达"同情"这个意思的动词， 但是有副词表达这个意思。
That's interesting to me.	我觉得这个很有意思。
You act compassionately.	你要很有同情心的去做事情，
But then, how to act compassionately if you don't have compassion?	但如果你没有同情心又如何达到这个目标？
That is where you fake.	这是你就需要去假装，
You fake it and make it. This is the mantra of the United States of America.	你先假装会干，然后再慢慢学。这就是美国人最推崇的。
You fake it and make it.	假装会干，然后慢慢学。
You act compassionately as though you have compassion: grind your teeth, take all the support system.	你假装有同情心的去做事情，就好像真的有一样。 努力的去做， 用好一切你可以利用的资源，
If you know how to pray, pray.	如果你知道怎么祈祷，也不妨祈祷一下，
Ask for compassion.	祈求同情心的到来，
Let me act compassionately.	让我能真正有同情心的去做事情。
Do it.	一定要去做。
You'll discover compassion and also slowly a relative compassion, and slowly, perhaps if you get the right teaching, you'll discover compassion is a dynamic manifestation of the reality of yourself, which is oneness, wholeness, and that's what you are.	这样你就一定会发现同情心， 然后慢慢的发现一种相对的有比较的同情心。 再然后，如果得到了正确的指点， 你会发现同情心是 你自身状态的一种动态体现，这种自身状态指的就是你的完整性和统一性， 这种自身状态同时定义了你究竟是谁。
With these words, thank you very much.	且到这里吧，谢谢！
The Kraken, a beast so terrifying it was said to devour men and ships and whales, and so enormous it could be mistaken for an island.	北海巨妖，一只恐怖的野兽， 据说它吞食活人、船只和鲸鱼， 并且它是如此巨大以至于会被误认为是一座小岛。
In assessing the merits of such tales, it's probably wise to keep in mind that old sailor's saw that the only difference between a fairytale and a sea story is a fairytale begins, "Once upon a time," and a sea story begins, "This ain't no shit."	在评估这样的故事的真实性时， 聪明的做法也许是谨记着老水手 对童话和海洋传说的区别的看法 是童话往往这样开始："很久以前……" 而一个海洋传说会这样开始："这不是胡扯。"
Every fish that gets away grows with every telling of the tale.	每次讲一个关于跑掉的鱼的故事时， 这条鱼都会随着故事讲的次数而变大。
Nevertheless, there are giants in the ocean, and we now have video proof, as those of you that saw the Discovery Channel documentary are no doubt aware.	然而大海中也有巨人， 并且现在我们有了视频为证， 如果你们看过探索频道的纪录片，那肯定知道这个。
I was one of the three scientists on this expedition that took place last summer off Japan.	我是参与探索旅程的三位科学家之一， 这次旅程于去年夏天在日本开展。
I'm the short one.	我是照片里最矮的那个。
The other two are Dr. Tsunemi Kubodera and Dr. Steve O'Shea.	其他两位是窪寺恒己博士和史蒂夫·欧谢伊博士。
I owe my participation in this now-historic event to TED.	我能参与到这个历史性的事件中来 这还要感谢 TED。
In 2010, there was a TED event called Mission Blue held aboard the Lindblad Explorer in the Galapagos as part of the fulfillment of Sylvia Earle's TED wish.	2010年有一场TED活动叫做"蓝色使命" 这场活动在停靠于加拉帕戈斯群岛的林德布拉德探险者号上进行 作为西尔维亚·厄尔的"TED愿望"的一部分。
I spoke about a new way of exploring the ocean, one that focuses on attracting animals instead of scaring them away.	我讲了探索海洋的新途径， 其中一个重点是要吸引动物而不是将它们吓跑。
Mike deGruy was also invited, and he spoke with great passion about his love of the ocean, and he also talked to me about applying my approach to something he's been involved with for a very long time, which is the hunt for the giant squid.	麦克· 德葛鲁也被邀请了， 他很有激情的讲了他对大海的热爱 并且他还讲到了应用我的方法 到一些他参与很久的项目中来， 那就是寻找巨型乌贼。
It was Mike that got me invited to the squid summit, a gathering of squid experts at the Discovery Channel that summer during Shark Week.	是迈克让我能受邀参加乌贼研讨峰会， 那是在那个夏天的鲨鱼周中 在探索频道开展的一次乌贼专家聚会。
I gave a talk on unobtrusive viewing and optical luring of deep sea squid in which I emphasized the importance of using quiet, unobtrusive platforms for exploration.	我发表了一个关于非介入观察 和使用光诱饵吸引深海乌贼的演讲。 我强调了探索应采用 无声、非介入的平台。
This came out of hundreds of dives I have made, farting around in the dark using these platforms, and my impression that I saw more animals working from the submersible than I did with either of the remote-operated vehicles.	这个结论源自我几百次的潜水活动， 使用这些平台 在黑暗中四处观察 给我的印象是从潜水器中观察 比我使用远程遥控潜艇 能够看到更多的动物。
But that could just be because the submersible has a wider field of view.	但这可能只是因为潜水器具有更广阔的视角。
But I also felt like I saw more animals working with the Tiburon than the Ventana, two vehicles with the same field of view but different propulsion systems.	另外我还发觉使用蒂伯龙潜艇比温塔娜潜艇 我观察到了更多的动物， 两种潜艇的视野相同 但采用了不同的推进系统。
So my suspicion was that it might have something to do with the amount of noise they make.	所以我怀疑这可能跟他们产生的噪音大小有关。
So I set up a hydrophone on the bottom of the ocean, and I had each of these fly by at the same speed and distance and recorded the sound they made.	因此我在海底安置了一个水听器， 然后我让每一个潜艇以同样的速度和距离经过 并记录它们发出的声音。
The Johnson Sea-Link -- -- which you can probably just barely hear here, uses electric thrusters -- very, very quiet.	约翰逊深海链接潜艇 ---（呼呼声噪音） 的声音可能只能被勉强听到， 它使用的是电动推进器 --- 非常、 非常安静。
The Tiburon also uses electric powered thrusters.	蒂伯龙潜艇使用的也是电动推进器。
It's also pretty quiet, but a bit noisier.	它也相当安静，但是噪音要稍大一点。（稍大的呼呼声噪音）
But most deep-diving ROVs these days use hydraulics and they sound like the Ventana.	但目前能潜到最深的那些远程遥控潜艇大多使用的是液压驱动系统 它们的声音与温塔娜潜艇的一样。
I think that's got to be scaring a lot of animals away.	我认为它的声音会吓跑很多的动物。
So for the deep sea squid hunt, I proposed using an optical lure attached to a camera platform with no thrusters, no motors, just a battery-powered camera, and the only illumination coming from red light that's invisible to most deep-sea animals that are adapted to see primarily blue.	所以对于深海乌贼的探索， 我建议使用光诱饵， 将光源安装到一个没有推进器、没有发动机 的相机平台上， 只有一个电池驱动的相机， 并且唯一的光源来自红光 红光是大部分的深海生物无法看到的 它们适应了只能主要看到蓝色光。
That's visible to our eye, but it's the equivalent of infrared in the deep sea.	这对我们是可见的， 但它相当于深海中的红外线。
So this camera platform, which we called the Medusa, could just be thrown off the back of the ship, attached to a float at the surface with over 2,000 feet of line, it would just float around passively carried by the currents, and the only light visible to the animals in the deep would be the blue light of the optical lure, which we called the electronic jellyfish, or e-jelly, because it was designed to imitate the bioluminescent display of the common deep sea jellyfish Atolla.	所以这个我们称之为美杜沙的相机平台 可以直接从船后方扔到水中， 平台用长于610米的绳索连在船上， 它会被动地由洋流驱使在周围漂流， 深海中动物们唯一可看见的光 是光诱饵所发出的蓝色光， 我们将其称之为电子水母， 因为它的设计是模仿 常见的深海棕色水母 所发出的生物光。
Now, this pinwheel of light that the Atolla produces is known as a bioluminescent burglar alarm and is a form of defense.	棕色水母所发出的这种旋转光 被认为是一种生物光报警 和一种防御形式。
The reason that the electronic jellyfish worked as a lure is not because giant squid eat jellyfish, but it's because this jellyfish only resorts to producing this light when it's being chewed on by a predator and its only hope for escape may be to attract the attention of a larger predator that will attack its attacker and thereby afford it an opportunity for escape.	电子水母能成为诱饵的原因 不是因为巨型乌贼捕食水母， 而是因为这种水母只会在它被捕食者咀嚼的时候 发出这种光， 水母唯一可以逃生的希望 是吸引到更大型捕食者的注意， 这样它就会攻击水母的捕食者 从而让水母有机会逃跑。
It's a scream for help, a last-ditch attempt for escape, and a common form of defense in the deep sea.	这是呼唤帮助的尖叫，逃跑的最后希望， 也是深海中一种常见的防御形式。
The approach worked.	这个方法是有效的。
Whereas all previous expeditions had failed to garner a single video glimpse of the giant, we managed six, and the first triggered wild excitement.	之前所有的探索活动都没能成功获得 巨型乌贼的影像资料， 而我们成功录了六段视频，第一次拍到巨型乌贼的视频时我们兴奋极了。
Edith Widder : Oh my God. Oh my God! Are you kidding me?Other scientists: Oh ho ho! That's just hanging there.	伊迪丝 · 维达： 哦，我的上帝。哦，我的上帝！你在跟我开玩笑吗？其他科学家： 哦呵呵！就在那里。
EW: It was like it was teasing us, doing a kind of fan dance -- now you see me, now you don't -- and we had four such teasing appearances, and then on the fifth, it came in and totally wowed us.	就像它在戏弄我们，跳着一种有趣的舞蹈 --- 现在你看到我，现在你又看不到我了 --- 我们先看到了四次这样的"戏弄"， 然后第五次时，它靠近了并完全震撼了我们。"
Scientists: Ooh. Bang! Oh my God! Whoa!	讲述人： 科学家们： "哦，砰 ！哦，我的上帝！哇噻 ！"
EW: The full monty.	完全的震撼。
What really wowed me about that was the way it came in up over the e-jelly and then attacked the enormous thing next to it, which I think it mistook for the predator on the e-jelly.	让我真正震撼的是 它来到电子水母上来的方式 然后攻击电子水母旁边的巨大东西， 我认为它误认为电子水母上面的是水母的捕食者。
But even more incredible was the footage shot from the Triton submersible.	但更令人难以置信的是 从特里顿潜水器里拍摄的镜头。
What was not mentioned in the Discovery documentary was that the bait squid that Dr. Kubodera used, a one-meter long diamondback squid had a light attached to it, a squid jig of the type that longline fishermen use, and I think it was this light that brought the giant in.	探索频道纪录片里没有提到的是 窪寺恒己博士使用的诱饵乌贼： 一只一米长的菱鳍乌贼 用延绳捕鱼的渔夫使用的乌贼挂钩 将光源附到它身上， 我认为正是这个光 吸引到了巨型乌贼。
Now, what you're seeing is the intensified camera's view under red light, and that's all Dr. Kubodera could see when the giant comes in here.	现在你们看到的是 高敏感相机使用红色光录下的影像， 这是窪寺恒己博士在巨型乌贼出现在这里时所看到的全部。
And then he got so excited, he turned on his flashlight because he wanted to see better, and the giant didn't run away, so he risked turning on the white lights on the submersible, bringing a creature of legend from the misty history into high-resolution video.	然后他变得如此兴奋 他打开了他的手电想看的更清楚些， 并且巨型乌贼没有逃跑， 因此他冒着风险打开了潜水器上的所有白色光， 把一种传说中的生物 从朦胧的历史变成了高清晰视频。
It was absolutely breathtaking, and had this animal had its feeding tentacles intact and fully extended, it would have been as tall as a two-story house.	它是如此的惊人， 如果这个生物将它的捕食触手 完全伸展开的话， 它会有两层楼那样高。
How could something that big live in our ocean and yet remain unfilmed until now?	为什么如此巨大的东西 生活在我们的海洋但直到现在才被拍摄到呢？
We've only explored about five percent of our ocean.	我们目前只探索了海洋的大约5%。
There are great discoveries yet to be made down there, fantastic creatures representing millions of years of evolution and possibly bioactive compounds that could benefit us in ways that we can't even yet imagine.	很多伟大的发现将会出现在水下， 代表数百万年的进化过程的伟大生物们 和很可能发现的生物活性化合物 这些发现可能会带给我们无法想象的好处。
Yet we have spent only a tiny fraction of the money on ocean exploration that we've spent on space exploration.	然而相较于宇宙探索 我们只花了一小部分钱 用于海洋探索。
We need a NASA-like organization for ocean exploration, because we need to be exploring and protecting our life support systems here on Earth.	我们需要一个类似美国国家航空航天局的组织来探索海洋， 因为我们需要探索和保护 地球上的我们的生命支持系统。
We need — thank you.	我们需要 --- 谢谢。
Exploration is the engine that drives innovation.	探索是推动创新的引擎。
Innovation drives economic growth.	创新驱动着经济增长。
So let's all go exploring, but let's do it in a way that doesn't scare the animals away, or, as Mike deGruy once said, "If you want to get away from it all and see something you've never seen, or have an excellent chance of seeing something that no one's ever seen, get in a sub."	所以让我们一起去探索吧， 但是让我们要用一种不会吓跑动物们的方式， 或者如麦克· 德葛鲁曾经说过的： "如果你想要摆脱一切 并且看到一些你从未见过的东西， 或有绝佳的机会看到一些前所未见的东西， 那么下到潜水艇里吧。"
He should have been with us for this adventure.	他本应和我们一起进行这次冒险。
We miss him.	我们缅怀他。
Okay, it's great to be back at TED.	再次回到TED演讲感觉真不错。
Why don't I just start by firing away with the video?	让我播放一段视频作为开场吧!
Okay, Glass, record a video.	男：眼镜, 开始录像。
This is it. We're on in two minutes.	女：一切就绪，2分钟后上场。
Okay Glass, hang out with The Flying Club.	男2：眼镜，叫'飞行俱乐部'一起来玩。
Google "photos of tiger heads." Hmm.	男3：眼镜，搜索老虎头的照片。唔！
You ready? You ready?	男4：准备好了吗？准备好了吗？
Right there. Okay, Glass, take a picture.	女2：就这样！眼镜，照张相。
Go!	男5：飞了!
Man 6: Holy [beep]! That is awesome.	男6：天啊！[哔]！棒极了。
Whoa! Look at that snake!	小孩：哇! 快看这条蛇!
Woman 3: Okay, Glass, record a video!	女3：眼镜，快录像！
Man 7: After this bridge, first exit.	男7：过了这座桥后由第一个出口出去。
Man 8: Okay, A12, right there!	男8：好的，A12,就在那！
Man 9: Google, say "delicious" in Thai.	男9：眼镜，查查"美味的"用泰语怎么说。
Google Glass: อร่อยMan 9: Mmm, อร่อย.	谷歌眼镜：อร่อย 男9：嗯,อร่อย。
Woman 4: Google "jellyfish."	女4：眼镜，查一下"水母"。
Man 10: It's beautiful.	男10：太漂亮了！
Sergey Brin: Oh, sorry, I just got this message from a Nigerian prince.	谢尔盖·布林：不好意思，我刚才在看尼日利亚王子发来的短信。
He needs help getting 10 million dollars.	他要我帮忙筹一千万美元。
I like to pay attention to these because that's how we originally funded the company, and it's gone pretty well.	我很关注这样的事， 因为我们的公司就是这样成立的， 而且我们经营的还不错。
Though in all seriousness, this position that you just saw me in, looking down at my phone, that's one of the reasons behind this project, Project Glass.	不过话说回来， 也许刚才大家也注意到了 我低头看手机的姿势， 这是谷歌眼镜计划开展的一个原因。
Because we ultimately questioned whether this is the ultimate future of how you want to connect to other people in your life, how you want to connect to information.	因为我们终究会产生疑问 未来人们会用怎样的方式取代手机 联系家人和朋友， 你又想怎样获取信息。
Should it be by just walking around looking down?	不能总是边走边低头看手机吧?
But that was the vision behind Glass, and that's why we've created this form factor.	这是谷歌眼镜的理念的根源， 这也是我们将产品设计成眼镜形状的主要原因。
Okay. And I don't want to go through all the things it does and whatnot, but I want to tell you a little bit more about the motivation behind what led to it.	我就不详细介绍谷歌眼镜的功能了， 但我想多讲一点 关于开发谷歌眼镜背后的动机。
In addition to potentially socially isolating yourself when you're out and about looking at your phone, it's kind of, is this what you're meant to do with your body?	除了外出时边走边看手机 会潜移默化的将你隔绝在社会团体之外， 其实，你真的要这样对待你的身体吗？
You're standing around there and you're just rubbing this featureless piece of glass.	你站在那 触碰着 平淡无奇的手机屏幕，
You're just kind of moving around.	机械的移来移去。
So when we developed Glass, we thought really about, can we make something that frees your hands?	在开发谷歌眼镜时，我们真的在想， 我们是否可以设计出一种设备来解放我们的双手呢？
You saw all of the things people are doing in the video back there.	刚刚你们看到了视频中的人 做的一些事情。
They were all wearing Glass, and that's how we got that footage.	他们都戴上了谷歌眼镜， 所以才能拍摄到这种视频。
And also you want something that frees your eyes.	同时你也想解放你的眼睛。
That's why we put the display up high, out of your line of sight, so it wouldn't be where you're looking and it wouldn't be where you're making eye contact with people.	所以，我们将显示器放在稍高的位置， 它比你的视线稍高一点。 这样它就不会挡住你的视野、 不会妨碍你与人们的 眼神交流。
And also we wanted to free up the ears, so the sound actually goes through, conducts straight to the bones in your cranium, which is a little bit freaky at first, but you get used to it.	同时，我们还想解放人们的双耳， 所以声音会由这传过来， 直接传至头骨， 最初你可能会感觉有点怪，但慢慢就会习惯的。
And ironically, if you want to hear it better, you actually just cover your ear, which is kind of surprising, but that's how it works.	有点讽刺意味的是，如果你想听得更清楚， 你盖住耳朵就行， 这听起来很令人吃惊，但事实就是这样。
My vision when we started Google 15 years ago was that eventually you wouldn't have to have a search query at all.	15年前在谷歌成立之初，我的初衷是： 最终人们不再 需要任何搜索引擎。
You'd just have information come to you as you needed it.	你可以随心所欲地想要什么信息就有什么信息。
And this is now, 15 years later, sort of the first form factor that I think can deliver that vision when you're out and about on the street talking to people and so forth.	而现在，15个年头过去了， 我想，我们最初的构想， 现在可以由谷歌眼镜来实现了， 它可以解决当你外出、在街上逛荡时、 轻松地、不需要低头看手机地与人交谈等等。
This project has lasted now, been just over two years.	到目前为止,这项计划已经开展了两年多。
We've learned an amazing amount.	我们得到一些不错的数据。
It's been really important to make it comfortable.	让使用者感到舒适真的很重要
So our first prototypes we built were huge.	我们制造的的第一批样品型号巨大。
It was like cell phones strapped to your head.	就像把手机绑在了头上。
It was very heavy, pretty uncomfortable.	很重，令人感到非常不舒服。
We had to keep it secret from our industrial designer until she actually accepted the job, and then she almost ran away screaming.	我们不能让我们的工业设计师知道这事 直到她最终接受这份工作， 后来,她差不多是尖叫着跑掉了。
But we've come a long way.	但是我们已经取得了很大的进步。
And the other really unexpected surprise was the camera.	另一个意想不到的惊喜就是摄像功能。
Our original prototypes didn't have cameras at all, but it's been really magical to be able to capture moments spent with my family, my kids.	我们最初的原型机是完全没有摄像功能的， 但如果能捕获与家人和孩子相处的瞬间 那会是一件多么神奇的事啊。
I just never would have dug out a camera or a phone or something else to take that moment.	我从未想到过会找到这样一款相机、 电话或其他什么东西来记录这些时刻。
And lastly I've realized, in experimenting with this device, that I also kind of have a nervous tic.	后来,我意识到,在试用这款设备的过程中， 我似乎产生了某种神经性反应，
The cell phone is -- yeah, you have to look down on it and all that, but it's also kind of a nervous habit.	手机需要你低下头使用， 这也是一种神经性反映。
Like if I smoked, I'd probably just smoke instead.	就像如果我过去吸烟,可能我现在还是要吸。
I would just light up a cigarette. It would look cooler.	只要点支烟就好了，看起来会更酷。
You know, I'd be like -- But in this case, you know, I whip this out and I sit there and look as if I have something very important to do or attend to.	你知道,就像这样-- 但在这种情况下,我拿出手机 坐在那看,就像在处理什么 重要的事情。
But it really opened my eyes to how much of my life I spent just secluding away, be it email or social posts or whatnot, even though it wasn't really -- there's nothing really that important or that pressing.	但实际上,我眼睁睁的看着自己花费大量的时光 却只是使自己远离人群， 做着发邮件、发微博这类事情， 即使这些事不是真的-- 不是真的那么重要和紧迫。
And with this, I know I will get certain messages if I really need them, but I don't have to be checking them all the time.	用谷歌眼镜,我知道我会获得这些消息 如果我真的需要的话， 但是我不必总是查看他们。
Yeah, I've really enjoyed actually exploring the world more, doing more of the crazy things like you saw in the video.	我很享受更多地去探索和了解这个世界 做更多正如你在视频中看到的疯狂的事情。
Thank you all very much.	谢谢大家。
Hello voicemail, my old friend.	语音信箱 我的老朋友
I've called for tech support again.	我又打了技术支持电话
I ignored my boss' warning. I called on a Monday morning.	我没听老板的警告 在周一早上打的
Now it's evening, and my dinner first grew cold -- and then grew mold.	现在已是晚上 我的食物先变凉 -- 继而发霉
I'm still on hold. I'm listening to the sounds of silence.	我仍被搁置 我正聆听着寂静之声
I don't think you understand. I think your phone lines are unmanned.	我觉得你不明白 我认为你们的电话线无人值守
I punched every touch tone I was told, but I still spent 18 hours on hold.	我敲打了每个提示的按键 但我还是被晾了18小时
It's not enough your software crashed my Mac and it constantly hangs and bombs -- it erased my ROMS! Now the Mac makes the sounds of silence.	你们的软件不但宕了我的Mac 还一直挂起和破坏 -- 擦除了我的ROM! 现在那Mac 发出了寂静之声
In my dreams I fantasize of wreaking vengeance on you guys.	我在梦中幻想 对你们实施报复
Say your motorcycle crashes.	咒你摩托出了车祸
Blood comes gushing from your gashes. With your fading strength, you call 9-1-1 and you pray for a trained MD. But you get me.	血流成河 你颤抖着 拨了911 祈祷叫到专业医师 但却叫到了我
And you listen to the sounds of silence.	于是你只听到寂静之声
Thank you. Good evening and welcome to "Spot the TED Presenter Who Used to Be a Broadway Accompanist."	谢谢 晚上好 欢迎来到 -- "见证曾是百老汇伴奏的TED演讲者"
OK. When I was offered the Times column six years ago, the deal was like this: you'll be sent the coolest, hottest, slickest new gadgets.	当我在六年前得到纽约时报专栏的工作时 有人这样对我说: 你会拿到最酷 最热门 最华丽的新玩意儿
Every week it'll arrive at your door.	每周都会被送到你家
You get to try them out, play with them, evaluate them until the novelty wears out, before you have to send them back.	你要试用它们 把玩它们 评估它们 玩厌了再把它们送回去
And you'll get paid for it. You can think about it, if you want.	你还可以拿到工资 好好想想吧
I've always been a technology nut, and I absolutely love it.	我一直都是个技术控 这工作太棒了
The job, though, came with one small downside. And that is: they intended to publish my email address at the end of every column.	然而这工作有个小缺点 那就是 我的email地址会出现在每个专栏底部
And what I've noticed is -- first of all, you get an incredible amount of email.	对此我的体会是 -- 首先 你会收到无数email
If you ever are feeling lonely, get a New York Times column, because you will get hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of emails. And the email I'm getting a lot today is about frustration.	如果你感到孤单 就去找份纽约时报专栏的工作 因为你会收到成百 上千 上万的email。如今我收到最多的email 是有关挫折的
People are feeling like things -- OK, I just had an alarm come up on my screen. Lucky you can't see it.	人们感到 -- 唔 我的屏幕上刚弹出一个通知 好在你们看不到
People are feeling overwhelmed. They're feeling like it's too much technology too fast.	人们感到在被淹没 他们觉得有太多技术 更新太快
It may be good technology, but I feel like there's not enough of a support structure.	有时候技术是好的 但我觉得在支持体系上还做得不够
There's not enough help. There's not enough thought put into the design of it to make it easy and enjoyable to use.	没有足够的帮助 没有足够的精力被用于 设计易用和人们乐于使用的产品
One time I wrote a column about my efforts to reach Dell Technical Support, and within 12 hours there were 700 messages from readers on the feedback boards on the Times website, from users saying, "Me too!" and, "Here's my tale of woe." I call it "software rage."	有一次我写了篇专栏 记录了我呼叫戴尔技术支持的经历 不到12小时 纽约时报的网站上就出现了 超过700条读者留言。有人说 "我也是!" "这是我的伤心往事"。我称之为软件焦虑
And man, let me tell you, whoever figures out how to make money off of this frustration will -- oh, how did that get up there? Just kidding.	老实说 懂得在这种挫折上动脑筋 从而赚钱的人会 -- 哦 那东东怎么出来了? 开玩笑的
OK, so why is the problem accelerating? Part of the problem is, ironically, because the industry has put so much thought into making things easier to use.	那为何这问题越来越严重? 一方面的原因是 很讽刺的 因为行业花了大把精力 为了使产品更易于使用
I'll show you what I mean.	我来举个例子
This is what the computer interface used to look like, DOS.	这是以前计算机界面的样子 DOS
Over the years it's gotten easier to use.	随着时间推移它变得更易于使用
This is the original Mac operating system.	这是原始的Mac操作系统
Reagan was President. Madonna was still a brunette.	里根还是总统 麦当娜还是黑头发
And the entire operating system -- this is the good part -- the entire operating system fit in 211k.	整个操作系统 -- 这就是好的地方 -- 整个操作系统只有211k
You couldn't put the Mac OS 10 logo in 211k!	Mac OS X的logo都不止211k!
So the irony is that as these things became easier to use a less technical, broader audience was coming into contact with this equipment for the first time.	讽刺就在于 当这些东西变得更易于使用 更非技术 更广泛的受众就开始了与其的 第一次亲密接触
I once had the distinct privilege of sitting in on the Apple call center for a day.	我曾有幸在苹果的呼叫中心坐了一天
The guy had a duplicate headset for me to listen to.	接线员给了我一个旁听的耳麦
And the calls that -- you know how they say, "Your call may be recorded for quality assurance?"	那些通话 -- 你知道他们是怎么说的 "为保证服务质量，您的通话可能会被录音"
Mm-Mmm. Your call may be recorded so that they can collect the funniest dumb user stories and pass them around on a CD.	唔唔 您的通话可能会被录音 于是他们就能够收集最好玩的小白用户故事 刻成CD分发
Which they do.	他们真的做了
And I have a copy.	我有份拷贝
It's in your TEDGift Bag. No, no.	就在你的礼物包里。不不
With your voices on it!	里面有你的声音
Some of the stories are just so classic, and yet so understandable.	有些故事堪称经典 然而也非常容易理解
A woman called Apple to complain that her mouse was squeaking -- making a squeaking noise.	一位女性向苹果抱怨说 她的鼠标在吱吱叫 -- 发出嘎吱嘎吱的响声
And the technician said, "Well, ma'am, what do you mean your mouse is squeaking?"	技术人员问 "女士, 您的鼠标在吱吱叫是什么意思?"
She says, "All I can tell you is that it squeaks louder the faster I move it across the screen."	她说 "我只知道 我让它在屏幕上动得越快它就叫得越响"
And the technician's like, "Ma'am, you've got the mouse up against the screen?"	技术人员又问 "女士, 您把鼠标贴在屏幕上动?"
She goes, "Well, the message said, 'Click here to continue.'" Well, if you like that one, how much time have we got?	她说 "提示里讲, '点此处继续.'" 如果你们喜欢那个故事...还剩多少时间?
Another one, a guy called -- this is absolutely true! -- his computer had crashed, and he told the technician he couldn't restart it no matter how many times he typed 11.	另一个男人的真实故事! 他的电脑宕机了 他告诉技术人员 他无法重启电脑 不管他输入多少次11
And the technician said, "What? Why are you typing 11?" He said, "The message says, 'Error Type 11.'" So we must admit that some of the blame falls squarely at the feet of the users.	技术人员说 "啥? 您为啥要输入11?" 他说, "提示里讲, '错误输入11.'" 因此我们必须承认我们无法指责用户
But why is the technical overload crisis, the complexity crisis, accelerating now? In the hardware world, it's because we the consumers want everything to be smaller, smaller, smaller.	但是为何技术超载危机 复杂度危机 正在加速呢? 在硬件行业中 因为我们消费者希望东西更小 更小 更小
So the gadgets are getting tinier and tinier but our fingers are essentially staying the same size.	因此那些小玩意儿也变得越来越小 但我们的手指还是原来大小
So it gets to be more and more of a challenge.	因此行业正不断面临挑战
Software is subject to another primal force: the mandate to release more and more versions.	软件行业则面临另一个问题 强制发布越来越多的版本
When you buy a piece of software, it's not like buying a vase or a candy bar, where you own it.	如果你买了个花瓶 或是块糖 你可以拥有它. 但如果是软件
It's more like joining a club where you pay dues every year.	则更像是加入俱乐部 每年缴纳会费
And every year, they say, "We've added more features and we'll sell it to you for $99."	于是每年 他们都会说 "我们加入了更多功能, 只卖$99."
I know one guy who's spent $4,000 just on Photoshop over the years.	我认识有人多年来单在Photoshop上就花了$4000
And software companies make 35 percent of their revenue from just these software upgrades.	软件公司将它们收益的35% 用于这些软件升级
I call it the Software Upgrade Paradox -- which is that if you improve a piece of software enough times, you eventually ruin it.	我称之为 软件升级佯谬 -- 当你增强一个软件足够多次 你最终会毁了它
I mean, Microsoft Word was last just a word processor in, you know, the Eisenhower administration.	我是说 Microsoft Word仅仅是一个文字处理器的时代 还要追溯到艾森豪威尔
But what's the alternative? Microsoft actually did this experiment. They said, "Well, wait a minute. Everyone complains that we're adding so many features.	但替代方案在哪? 微软实际做过这个实验. 他们说 "等等. 每个人都抱怨说我们加入了太多特性
Let's create a word processor that's just a word processor.	让我们做一个单纯的文字处理器
Simple, pure, does not do web pages, is not a database."	简单, 纯粹, 不编辑网页, 不是数据库."
And it came out. It was called Microsoft Write.	于是就有了 Microsoft Write
And none of you are nodding in acknowledgment because it died.	你们中没人知道它 因为它已死
It tanked. No one ever bought it.	它被打入冷宫 没人买过它
I call this the Sport Utility Principle. People like to surround themselves with unnecessary power, right?	我称之为 运动器械原则. 人们喜欢将自己包围在 非必须的能力中
They don't need the database and the website, but they're like, "Well, I'll upgrade, because, I might, you know, I might need that someday."	他们不需要数据库和网站 但是他们会想 "好, 我要升级, 因为我或许有一天会需要它!"
So the problem is: as you add more features, where are they going to go?	问题是 当你加入更多特性 它们会在哪儿?
Where are you going to stick them? You only have so many design tools.	你会把它们放在哪里? 你有那么多设计工具
You can do buttons; you can do sliders, pop-up menus, sub-menus.	你可以做出按钮 滑块 弹出菜单 子菜单
But if you're not careful about how you choose, you wind up with this.	但如果你不仔细选择的话 就会变成这样
This is an un-retouched -- this is not a joke -- un-retouched photo of Microsoft Word, the copy that you have, with all the toolbars open.	这是张未加修饰的 -- 不是笑话 -- 未加修饰的Microsoft Word的照片 你们都有的版本 打开了所有的工具条
You've obviously never opened all the toolbars, but all you have to type in is this little, teeny window down here.	显然你们从未打开过所有工具条 你们用于输入的就只是这~么小个窗口
And we've arrived at the age of interface matrices, where there are so many features and options, you have to do two dimensions, you know: a vertical and a horizontal. You guys all complained about how Microsoft Word is always bulleting your lists and underlining your links automatically.	我们已进入了界面矩阵时代 有那么多特性和选项 你不得不做出2维的 垂直的和水平的. 你们都抱怨过 为什么Microsoft Word总是自动为列表加项目符号 为链接加下划线
The off switch is in there somewhere.	关闭选项就在某处
I'm telling you, it's there!	我说真的 就在某处
Part of the art of designing a simple, good interface, is knowing when to use which one of these features.	设计一个简单界面的艺术 部分在于 知道何时使用何种特性
Here is the log off dialogue box for Windows 2000.	这是Windows 2000的注销对话框
There are only four choices, so why are they in a pop-up menu?	只有4个选项 但为何是在弹出菜单里?
It's not like the rest of the screen is so full of other components that you need to collapse the choices.	屏幕上剩下的地方并非满是其他组件 使得你需要折叠选项
They could have put them all out in view.	他们其实可以把选项放到外面
Here's Apple's take on the exact same dialogue box.	这是苹果的同一个对话框
Thank you -- yes, I designed the dialogue box. No, no, no.	谢谢 -- 是我设计了这个对话框. 不不不
Already, we can see that Apple and Microsoft have a severely divergent approach to software design.	我们已经看到苹果和微软 对于软件设计有着相当不同的方法
Microsoft's approach to simplicity tends to be: let's break it down; let's just make it more steps.	微软达到简单的方法是 拆分 采用更多的步骤
There are these "wizards" everywhere.	于是这些向导变得到处都是
And you know, there's a new version of Windows coming out this fall.	你们知道 新版本的Windows今年秋天推出
If they continue at this pace, there's absolutely no telling where they might wind up.	如果他们继续这么做 没人知道 他们会做成什么样
"Welcome to the Type-A-Word Wizard." OK, I'll bite. Let's click "Next" to continue.	欢迎来到 输入一个单词 向导. 好吧 让我们点"下一步"继续
From the drop-down menu, choose the first letter you want to type. OK.	从下拉菜单中, 选择您要输入的第一个字母. 恩
So there is a limit that we don't want to cross. So what is the answer?	因此我们做事要有限度 但答案在哪?
How do you pack in all these features in a simple, intelligent way?	如何才能将所有这些特性以简单 智能的方式包装起来?
I believe in consistency with possible, real-world equivalents, trashcan folder when possible, label things mostly.	我信仰 "保持一致" "真实对等" "使用回收站" "使用标注"
But I beg of the designers here to break all those rules if they violate the biggest rule of all, which is intelligence. Now what do I mean by that?	但我请求在场的设计师们 打破这些规则 如果它们抵触了最大一条规则 那就是"智能". 什么意思呢?
I'm going to give you some examples where intelligence makes something not consistent, but it's better.	我会举一些例子 说明智能让某些事物 失去一致 但却更好
If you are buying something on the web, you're supposed to put in your address and you're supposed to choose which country you're from, OK?	比如你在网上购物 你需要输入你的地址 以及你所在的国家 好了
There are 200 countries in the world. We like to think of the Internet as a global village.	世界上有200多个国家. 我们常说互联网是地球村
I'm sorry; it's not one yet.	对不起 它还不是
It's mainly, like, the United States, Europe and Japan.	主要是美国 欧洲和日本
So why is United States in the "U"s?	但为何美国在"U"字部?
You have to scroll, like, seven screens-full to get to it.	你得要滚动7个屏才能找到它
Now it would be inconsistent to put United States first, but it would be intelligent. This one's been touched on before, but why in God's name do you shut down a Windows PC by clicking a button called "Start?"	虽然把美国放在第一位会不一致 但这显得智能. 另一个老故事 看在上帝的份上 为何关闭一台Windows PC时 要点"开始"按钮?
Here's another pet one of mine: you have a printer.	另一个我经常说的故事: 你有一台打印机
Most of the time, you want to print one copy of your document, in page order, on that printer.	大多数时候 你只想打印文档的一份拷贝 按照页码顺序排列
So why in God's name do you see this every time you print?	看在上帝的份上 为何每次打印时你都会看到这个?
It's like a 747 shuttle cockpit.	看上去就像747的驾驶舱
And one of the buttons at the bottom, you'll notice, is not "Print."	看这里底部的按钮 还不是"打印"
Now, I'm not saying that Apple is the only company who has embraced the cult of simplicity.	我不是说苹果是唯一一家 将简单视为信条的公司
Palm is also, especially in the old days, wonderful about this.	Palm也是 尤其是在过去 精于此道
I actually got to speak to Palm when they were flying high in the '90s, and after the talk, I met one of the employees.	我曾在90年代Palm鼎盛时去作过演讲 结束后 我遇到一位员工
He says, "Nice talk." And I said, "Thank you, what do you do here?"	他说 "很精彩" 我说 "谢谢, 你是做什么的?"
He said, "I'm a tap counter."	他说 "我是点击计数员"
I'm like, "You're a what?" He goes, "Well, Jeff Hawkins, the CEO, says, 'If any task on the Palm Pilot takes more than three taps of the stylus, it's too long, and it has to be redesigned.' So I'm the tap counter."	我说 "你是啥?" 他说 "我们的CEO Jeff Hawkins说 任何在Palm Pilot上的任务如果需要超过3次点击 那就太长了, 需要重新设计.' 所以我是点击计数员."
I'm going to show you an example of a company that does not have a tap counter.	我来举个例子 如果一个公司没有 点击计数员
This is Microsoft Word. When you want to create a new blank document in Word -- it could happen!	这是Microsoft Word. 当你需要创建一个新文档 -- 这是能做到的!
-- you go up to the File menu and you choose "New." Now, what happens when you choose "New?" Do you get a new blank document?	你到"文件"菜单里选择"新建" 选了"新建"后会发生什么? 你得到新文档了么?
You do not.	没有
On the opposite side of the monitor, a task bar appears, and somewhere in those links -- by the way, not at the top -- somewhere in those links is a button that makes you a new document.	在显示器的另一端 出现了一个任务栏 在这些链接之中 -- 不是在顶部 顺带一提 -- 有一个按钮会创建新文档
That is a company not counting taps.	这就是不计算点击数的公司
You know, I don't want to just stand here and make fun of Microsoft ...	你们知道 我不想只是站在这里取笑微软
Audience: Go on.	听众: 继续
David Pogue: Yes, I do.	David Pogue: 当然
The Bill Gates song!	比尔盖茨之歌!
I've been a geek forever and I wrote the very first DOS.	我一直是个geek 我写了第一个DOS
I put my software and IBM together; I got profit and they got the loss.	我把我的软件和IBM绑在一起 我拿利润 他们拿亏损
I write the code that makes the whole world run.	我的代码让全世界运转
I'm gettin' royalties from everyone.	我向每个人收专利费
Sometimes it's garbage, but the press is snowed.	有时代码是垃圾 但媒体都已被忽悠
You buy the box; I'll sell the code.	你买硬件 我卖代码
Every software company is doing Microsoft's R&amp;D.	每个软件公司都在做微软的研发
You can't keep a good idea down these days.	这年头你无法独享好点子
Even Windows is a hack. We're kind of based loosely on the Mac.	连Window也是个hack 松散地基于Mac
So it's big, so it's slow. You've got nowhere to go. I'm not doing this for praise.	因为它又大又慢 你没有其他选择 我不是为了受赞扬而工作
I write the code that fits the world today.	我的代码适用于今天的世界
Big mediocrity in every way.	各方面都平庸
We've entered planet domination mode.	我们已进入行星统治模式
You'll have no choice; you'll buy my code.	你没有选择 只能买我的代码
I am Bill Gates and I write the code.	我是比尔盖茨 我写了代码
But actually, I believe there are really two Microsofts.	但事实上 我相信有两个微软
There's the old one, responsible for Windows and Office.	旧的一个 要为Windows和Office负责
They're dying to throw the whole thing out and start fresh, but they can't. They're locked in because so many add-ons and other company stuff locks into the old 1982 chassis.	他们渴望将旧东西扔掉 从头再来 但他们不能. 他们被锁住了 因为那么多插件 和其他公司的东西都被锁在了1982年的底盘里
But there's also a new Microsoft that's really doing good, simple interface designs.	但也有一家新的微软 做着好而简单的界面设计
I liked the Media Center PC. I liked the Microsoft SPOT Watch.	我喜欢Media Center PC. 我喜欢微软的SPOT手表
The Wireless Watch flopped miserably in the market, but it wasn't because it wasn't simply and beautifully designed.	这种无线手表可悲地在市场中受挫 但这不是因为它的设计简单和美观
Let's put it this way: would you pay $10 a month to have a watch that has to be recharged every night, like your cell phone, and stops working when you leave your area code?	这样说吧 你会买个手表 每个月付$10 每晚都要跟你的手机一样充电 当你离开你的区域代码时就会罢工么?
The signs might indicate that the complexity crunch is only going to get worse.	迹象表明复杂度危机只会变得更糟
So is there any hope? The screens are getting smaller.	还有希望吗? 屏幕正变得更小
People are illuminating, putting manuals in the boxes.	人们正在启蒙 把手册放进盒子里
The things are coming out at a faster pace.	新事物出现得越来越快
It's funny -- when Steve Jobs came back to Apple in 1997, after 12 years away, it was the MacWorld Expo -- he came to the stage in that black turtleneck and jeans, and he sort of did this. The crowd went wild, but I'm like, where have I seen this before? I had just seen the movie "Evita" -- -- with Madonna, and I'm like, you know what, I've got to do one about Steve Jobs.	有意思的是 -- 当史蒂夫乔布斯1997年回到苹果 是在离开了12年之后 在MacWorld展会上 他站到台上 穿着那套黑色圆领毛衣和牛仔裤 他做了这个动作. 人群沸腾了 但我在想 我在哪里见过这个? 我刚看过电影"贝隆夫人" -- -- 麦当娜主演. 你知道 我得为史蒂夫乔布斯唱上一曲
It won't be easy. You'll think I'm strange.	这不会简单. 你会认为我奇怪
When I try to explain why I'm back after telling the press Apple's future is black.	当我尝试解释为何我回来了 在告诉媒体苹果的未来一片黑暗之后
You won't believe me.	你不会相信我
All that you see is a kid in his teens who started out in a garage with only a buddy named Woz.	你所看到的只是个在车库发家的小屁孩 和一个叫Woz的兄弟一起
You try rhyming with garage!	你试试跟"车库"押韵!
Don't cry for me, Cupertino.	别为我哭泣 库比蒂诺
The truth is, I never left you.	我从未离开你们
I know the ropes now, know what the tricks are.	我知道了内情 找到了诀窍
I made a fortune over at Pixar.	我在皮克斯发了财
Don't cry for me, Cupertino. I've still got the drive and vision.	别为我哭泣 库比蒂诺. 我仍有动力和远景
I still wear sandals in any weather. It's just that these days, they're Gucci leather.	我仍不管季节穿拖鞋. 只不过眼下 它们是古资牌的
Thank you. So Steve Jobs had always believed in simplicity and elegance and beauty. And the truth is, for years I was a little depressed -- because Americans obviously did not value it, because the Mac had three percent market share and Windows had 95 percent market share.	谢谢. 史蒂夫乔布斯一直都信仰简单 优雅 与美. 事实上 我一直有些沮丧 因为美国人明显不识货 因为Mac只有3%市场份额 而Windows有95%
People did not think it was worth putting a price on it.	人们不认同它的价值
So I was a little depressed -- then I heard Al Gore's talk, and I realized I didn't know the meaning of depressed.	因此我有些沮丧. 后来我听了阿尔戈尔的演讲 我意识到 我还不明白沮丧的含义
But it turns out I was wrong, right? Because the iPod came out, and it violated every bit of common wisdom.	后来证明我错了 因为iPod上市了 它打破了所有常识
Other products cost less. Other products had more features.	其他的产品更便宜 其他的产品有更多特性
They had voice recorders and FM transmitters.	有录音和FM调频
The other products were backed by Microsoft with an open standard, not Apple's propriety standard.	其他产品有微软的开放标准支持 而不是苹果的私有标准
But the iPod won! This is the one they wanted.	但是iPod赢了! 这是人们想要的
The lesson was: simplicity sells.	教训是: 至简畅销
And there are signs that the industry is getting the message.	有迹象表明整个行业正在接受这个信息
This is a little company that's done very well with simplicity and elegance.	有家小公司在简单和优雅方面做得非常好
The Sonos thing -- it's catching on.	Sonos -- 它正在赶上
I've got just a couple examples. Physically, a really cool, elegant, thinking coming along lately.	我这里有些例子. 近期出现的真正酷 和优雅的点子
When you have a digital camera, how do you get the pictures back to your computer?	当你有台数码相机 你会如何将照片放回电脑中?
Well, you either haul around a USB cable or you buy a card reader and haul that around.	要么是把USB线拖来拖去 要么是买个读卡器搬来搬去
Either one, you're going to lose. What I do is, I take out the memory card, and I fold it in half, revealing USB contacts.	不管怎样你都有损失. 而我要做的是 把记忆卡拿出来 对折 露出USB头
I just stick it in the computer, offload the pictures, put it right back in the camera. I never have to lose anything.	插进电脑 卸下照片 再放回相机里 我没有任何损失
Here's another example. Chris, you're the source of all power.	这是另一个例子. Chris 你是所有力量的源泉
Will you be my power plug?	能当下我的电源插座么?
Oh yeah.	哦好
DP: Hold that and don't let go. You might have seen this: this is Apple's new laptop. This is the power cord. It hooks on like this.	DP: 拿好不要放手. 你可能见过这个: 这是苹果的新笔记本. 这是电源线. 这样把它钩上
And I'm sure every one of you has done this at some point in your lives, or one of your children. You walk along -- and I'm about to pull this onto the floor. I don't care. It's a loaner.	我肯定你们每个人 或是你们的孩子 都做过这样的事. 你在走路 我要把它拉到地上 没关系 这是借来的
Here we go. Whoa! It's magnetic. It doesn't pull the laptop onto the floor.	开始了 喔! 这是磁性的 不会把笔记本拉到地上
In my very last example -- I do a lot of my work using speech recognition software, and you have to be kind of quiet because the software is nervous.	最后的例子 -- 我的很多工作 都是通过语音识别软件完成的 你们要安静些 因为这软件很怕生
"Speech recognition software is really great for doing emails very quickly. Period.	使用语音识别软件可以快速处理email 句号
Like, I get hundreds of them a day. Period.	比如 我每天要处理上百封邮件 句号
And it's not just what I dictate that it writes down. Period.	这并不只是单纯的我说它写 句号
I also use this feature called voice macros. Period."	我还会使用一项称为语音宏的特性 句号
Correct "dissuade". "Not just."	修正 "dissuade". "not just"
Okay, this is not an ideal situation, because it's getting the echo from the hall and stuff.	好吧 这不是个理想的环境 因为大厅里有回声
But the point is: I can respond to people very quickly by saying a short word and having it write out a much longer thing. So if somebody sends me a fan letter, I'll say, "Thanks for that."	要点是 我可以快速回复邮件 只需说一个很短的单词 它就会写下 很长一段. 如果有人发给我一封粉丝信 我会说 "谢谢"
And conversely, if somebody sends me hate mail -- which happens daily -- I say, "Piss off."	相反的 如果有人给我发攻击信 -- 我每天都会收到 -- 我会说 "滚蛋"
So that's my dirty little secret. Don't tell anyone.	这就是我的小秘密 别告诉其他人
So the point is, this a really interesting story.	要点是 这是个真正有趣的故事
This is version eight of this software, and do you know what they put in version eight?	这是软件的第8个版本 你知道他们在第8个版本里放了什么吗?
No new features. It's never happened before in software!	没有新特性 这在软件史上从未发生过!
The company put no new features. They just said, "We'll make the software work right." Right.	他们没有加入新特性 他们只是说 "我们要让软件工作正确." 是的
Because for years people had bought this software, tried it out -- 95 percent accuracy was all they got, which means one in 20 words is wrong -- and they put it in their drawer. And the company got sick of that, so they said, "This version, we're not going to do anything but make sure it's darned accurate."	因为多年来人们买了这套软件 尝试使用 -- 发现只能达到95%的准确率 也就是20个单词里就有1个错的 于是人们把它收进抽屉 让那公司很郁闷 于是他们说 "这个版本, 除了让它变得非常正确以外 我们不会做任何事."
And so that's what they did. This cult of doing things right is starting to spread.	于是他们做到了. 这种把事做正确的信仰也在开始传播
My final advice for those of you who are consumers of this technology: remember, if it doesn't work it's not necessarily you, OK?	我的最终建议 对于你们中那些消费者: 记住 如果产品不工作 那不一定是你的错
It could be the design of the thing you're using.	可能是设计上的问题
Be aware in life of good design and bad design.	在生活中留意好的和不好的设计
And if you're among the people who create the stuff, easy is hard.	如果你是创造东西的人 要做到简单很难
Pre-sweat the details for your audience. Count the taps.	让你的受众预热细节. 计算点击数
Remember, the hard part is not deciding what features to add -- it's deciding what to leave out.	记住 难的不是决定加入什么特性 -- 而是决定拿掉什么
And best of all, your motivation is: simplicity sells.	最好你的动机是: 至简畅销
Bravo.	赞
DP: Thank you very much.	DP: 谢谢
Hear, hear!	非常同意
Like many of you, I'm one of the lucky people.	跟你们在座的人一样,我也是一个幸运的人.
I was born to a family where education was pervasive.	我生于一个教育是很普遍的家庭
I'm a third-generation PhD, a daughter of two academics.	我是我们家里的第三代博士,我父母都是做学问的
In my childhood, I played around in my father's university lab.	童年时,我在我父亲的大学实验室里玩耍
So it was taken for granted that I attend some of the best universities, which in turn opened the door to a world of opportunity.	因此毫无疑问我最后上了一些最好的大学 这样就为我打开一扇巨大的机会之门
Unfortunately, most of the people in the world are not so lucky.	不幸的是,这世上大多数的人并没那么幸运
In some parts of the world, for example, South Africa, education is just not readily accessible.	在世界的某些地方,比如说,在南非, 教育确实是很难得到
In South Africa, the educational system was constructed in the days of apartheid for the white minority.	在南非,教育系统是在种族隔离时期 为少数白人而建造的
And as a consequence, today there is just not enough spots for the many more people who want and deserve a high quality education.	因此,如今对于那些想要并且应当得到 高质量的教育的人来说却没有足够的位置
That scarcity led to a crisis in January of this year at the University of Johannesburg.	今年一月,教育机会上的贫乏导致了在 约翰尼斯堡大学的一个危机
There were a handful of positions left open from the standard admissions process, and the night before they were supposed to open that for registration, thousands of people lined up outside the gate in a line a mile long, hoping to be first in line to get one of those positions.	在正常的录取工作下还有很多位置是空的, 而在他们准备打开这些位置 让别人来注册的前夜, 成千上万的人在门外排起了一英里长的队伍 希望自己是第一个进去得到这个位置的
When the gates opened, there was a stampede, and 20 people were injured and one woman died.	当门打开时,出现了踩踏事件 结果导致20人受伤,1个女人死亡
She was a mother who gave her life trying to get her son a chance at a better life.	她是一位母亲,试图为她儿子争取一个过上好生活 的机会
But even in parts of the world like the United States where education is available, it might not be within reach.	即使在像美国这样的地区 尽管教育机会开放,但仍然有可能无法垂手可得
There has been much discussed in the last few years about the rising cost of health care.	过去几年有很多人在讨论 医疗保险的价格上升
What might not be quite as obvious to people is that during that same period the cost of higher education tuition has been increasing at almost twice the rate, for a total of 559 percent since 1985.	对于人们来说可能不明显的是,在这段时间里 高等教育的消费支出 几乎在以两倍的速度增长 自1985年来上涨了559%
This makes education unaffordable for many people.	这使得很多人无法负担教育费用
Finally, even for those who do manage to get the higher education, the doors of opportunity might not open.	即使对于很多有办法得到高等教育的人, 机会的大门也许不会向他们打开
Only a little over half of recent college graduates in the United States who get a higher education actually are working in jobs that require that education.	只有仅仅过半的在美国 接受高等教育的大学研究生 实际工作在要求研究生学位的岗位上
This, of course, is not true for the students who graduate from the top institutions, but for many others, they do not get the value for their time and their effort.	当然,这对于从高等院校毕业的学生 来说肯定不是真的 但是对于其他人来说就是,他们没有得到 他们付出的时间和努力所带来的价值
Tom Friedman, in his recent New York Times article, captured, in the way that no one else could, the spirit behind our effort.	Tom Friedman,在他最近的纽约时报的文章中（以他人所不能的方式） 抓住了在我们在努力背后的精神
He said the big breakthroughs are what happen when what is suddenly possible meets what is desperately necessary.	他说巨大的突破是在当突然可能的事情 满足急切需要的事情时发生的
I've talked about what's desperately necessary.	我已经说了什么是急切需要的了
Let's talk about what's suddenly possible.	现在让我讲讲什么是突然可能的
What's suddenly possible was demonstrated by three big Stanford classes, each of which had an enrollment of 100,000 people or more.	这个其实已经被斯坦福大学三个大课 所展示了 每种课都是100000人以上在听
So to understand this, let's look at one of those classes, the Machine Learning class offered by my colleague and cofounder Andrew Ng.	因此为了理解这一点,我们看看其中一个 由我一个同事和Andrew Ng教授 共同创办的机器研究课程
Andrew teaches one of the bigger Stanford classes.	Andrew是教授斯坦福的大课程的
It's a Machine Learning class, and it has 400 people enrolled every time it's offered.	是机器研究课程 每回都有400多人参加
When Andrew taught the Machine Learning class to the general public, it had 100,000 people registered.	而当Andrew把这门课传播到公众当中, 100000人注册了
So to put that number in perspective, for Andrew to reach that same size audience by teaching a Stanford class, he would have to do that for 250 years.	就这样来说吧, 为了让他通过教授斯坦福课程来 影响到那么多人 他得用250年时间
Of course, he'd get really bored.	当然,他肯定会无聊死
So, having seen the impact of this, Andrew and I decided that we needed to really try and scale this up, to bring the best quality education to as many people as we could.	因此在见识到这个事情的影响之后 Andrew和我决定我们得做大这件事 去尽可能的为更多人带来最优质的教育
So we formed Coursera, whose goal is to take the best courses from the best instructors at the best universities and provide it to everyone around the world for free.	因此我们创建了Coursera 目地是为了让人们从最好的大学、最好的导师 中学到最好的课程 而且免费提供给世界各地的人
We currently have 43 courses on the platform from four universities across a range of disciplines, and let me show you a little bit of an overview of what that looks like.	我们目前在平台上有43个课程 来自4所大学,有各种各样的学科 让我给大家看看这个网站 大概是什么样子吧
Robert Ghrist: Welcome to Calculus.	Robert Ghrist: 欢迎来到微积分课程
Ezekiel Emanuel: Fifty million people are uninsured.	Ezekiel Emanuel: 有5千万人没有保险
Scott Page: Models help us design more effective institutions and policies.	Scott Page: 模型帮助我们去设计更有效的制度和政策
We get unbelievable segregation.	我们有不可置信的种族分离
Scott Klemmer: So Bush imagined that in the future, you'd wear a camera right in the center of your head.	Scot Klemmer: 因此布什想象到,在未来, 你会在你头正中间带一架照相机
Mitchell Duneier: Mills wants the student of sociology to develop the quality of mind ...	Mitchell Duneier: Mills想要社会学的学生们培养他们思维的质量
RG: Hanging cable takes on the form of a hyperbolic cosine.	RG: 悬挂的电线呈双曲线型的余弦函数形状
Nick Parlante: For each pixel in the image, set the red to zero.	Nick Parlante: 对于图像中的每一个像素, 将红色设置为0
Paul Offit: ... Vaccine allowed us to eliminate polio virus.	Paul Offit: 疫苗可以帮我们去消灭小儿麻痹症的病毒
Dan Jurafsky: Does Lufthansa serve breakfast and San Jose? Well, that sounds funny.	Dan Jurafsky: 德国汉莎航空公司提供早餐和San Jose吗? 嗯，那听起来挺有意思
Daphne Koller: So this is which coin you pick, and this is the two tosses.	Daphne Koller: 这就是你选出来的硬币,这是两次投掷的结果
Andrew Ng: So in large-scale machine learning, we'd like to come up with computational ...	Andrew Ng: 因此在大规模的机器研究中,我们希望得出计算型的....
It turns out, maybe not surprisingly, that students like getting the best content from the best universities for free.	结果呢,可能不是很令人吃惊, 学生们都喜欢免费从最好的大学得到 最好的课程内容
Since we opened the website in February, we now have 640,000 students from 190 countries.	自从我们在二月创建了这个网站后, 我们现在已经有来自190个国家的640000名学生
We have 1.5 million enrollments, 6 million quizzes in the 15 classes that have launched so far have been submitted, and 14 million videos have been viewed.	我们有150万次的申请 15个已经开讲的课程里的600万个小测验 已被提交,1400万的视频已被观看
But it's not just about the numbers, it's also about the people.	不过这不仅跟数字有关 还跟人有关
Whether it's Akash, who comes from a small town in India and would never have access in this case to a Stanford-quality course and would never be able to afford it.	不管是来自印度的一个小镇 绝不会得到斯坦福水准的 课程,而且也无法支付那些课程的 Akash
Or Jenny, who is a single mother of two and wants to hone her skills so that she can go back and complete her master's degree.	或者是两个孩子的单身妈妈 想在家里学点技能 然后回去完成她的硕士学位的Jenny
Or Ryan, who can't go to school, because his immune deficient daughter can't be risked to have germs come into the house, so he couldn't leave the house.	还是Ryan, 他不能上学 因为他的无抵抗力的女儿 使他必须待在家里确保没有细菌 进入房间
I'm really glad to say -- recently, we've been in correspondence with Ryan -- that this story had a happy ending.	我很高兴地可以说-- 最近,我们在与Ryan联系 最后这个故事有了一个很好的结局
Baby Shannon -- you can see her on the left -- is doing much better now, and Ryan got a job by taking some of our courses.	Shannon宝贝--你可以从左边看到她 现在变得好多了 而且Ryan由于上了我们提供的一些课,他得到了一份工作
So what made these courses so different?	那到底是什么使得这些课程与众不同呢?
After all, online course content has been available for a while.	毕竟,在线课程已经有很长一段时间了
What made it different was that this was real course experience.	但不同的是这些都是真正的上课体验
It started on a given day, and then the students would watch videos on a weekly basis and do homework assignments.	从固定的一天开始, 然后学生每周必须去观看视频 然后做家庭作业
And these would be real homework assignments for a real grade, with a real deadline.	而这些都是真正的家庭作业 有真正的成绩和截止日期
You can see the deadlines and the usage graph.	你看以看到截止日期和使用情况的图像
These are the spikes showing that procrastination is global phenomenon.	这些顶端表明 耽搁是一个全球现象
At the end of the course, the students got a certificate.	在每门课结束后 学生们会得到一个证书
They could present that certificate to a prospective employer and get a better job, and we know many students who did.	他们可以把证书给雇主看 然后得到一个更好的工作 而我们知道很多学生都这么做了
Some students took their certificate and presented this to an educational institution at which they were enrolled for actual college credit.	很多学生拿着证书 给了他们在读的院校 索要真正的大学学分
So these students were really getting something meaningful for their investment of time and effort.	因此这些学生为他们所付出的时间和努力 的确在得到一些有意义的东西
Let's talk a little bit about some of the components that go into these courses.	让我们谈谈在课程里面一些 部分内容吧
The first component is that when you move away from the constraints of a physical classroom and design content explicitly for an online format, you can break away from, for example, the monolithic one-hour lecture.	第一个就是当你 摆脱了在教室里的束缚 和为在线课程明确地设计内容的时候 你可以不再使用,比如说 单调的一小时讲座的模式
You can break up the material, for example, into these short, modular units of eight to 12 minutes, each of which represents a coherent concept.	你可以将材料,比如说, 分成8到12分钟的短的单元 每一个都代表一个连贯的概念
Students can traverse this material in different ways, depending on their background, their skills or their interests.	学生可以用不同方式来反复研究这个材料 取决于他们的背景,技能,和兴趣
So, for example, some students might benefit from a little bit of preparatory material that other students might already have.	比如说,一些学生会从 一点点的准备材料中收益 但其他学生可能已经了解了
Other students might be interested in a particular enrichment topic that they want to pursue individually.	其他学生可能对其中的一个话题 感兴趣, 从而他们想去单独探索它
So this format allows us to break away from the one-size-fits-all model of education, and allows students to follow a much more personalized curriculum.	因此这种模式可以让我们逃出 "一刀切" 的教育方法 并且允许学生去遵循一个更个性化的课程安排
Of course, we all know as educators that students don't learn by sitting and passively watching videos.	当然,我们都知道作为教育者, 学生们干坐着看视频是学不到什么东西的.
Perhaps one of the biggest components of this effort is that we need to have students who practice with the material in order to really understand it.	或许这努力当中最大的部分 是需要让这些学生通过 材料的练习去 真正的理解课程
There's been a range of studies that demonstrate the importance of this.	有很多研究表明这一方面的重要性,
This one that appeared in Science last year, for example, demonstrates that even simple retrieval practice, where students are just supposed to repeat what they already learned gives considerably improved results on various achievement tests down the line than many other educational interventions.	比如说,去年在科学杂志上出现的一篇, 表明了即使是简单的重复小练习 只需要学生重复 他们刚刚学到的东西 会带来很大的提高效果 不管是在各种成绩测试 还是其他教育性的打断
We've tried to build in retrieval practice into the platform, as well as other forms of practice in many ways.	我们在尝试在平台中去建立一个回顾性的测试 以及其他各种方式的练习
For example, even our videos are not just videos.	比如说,我们的视频不光是简单的视频
Every few minutes, the video pauses and the students get asked a question.	每过几分钟,视频就会暂停下来 然后学生必须回答一个问题
SP: ... These four things. Prospect theory, hyperbolic discounting, status quo bias, base rate bias. They're all well documented.	SP: ...这四样东西,预期理论,双曲贴现, 现状偏差,基准利率偏差.这些都被很好地记录下来
So they're all well documented deviations from rational behavior.	因此他们都是从理性的行为中很好地记录下来的偏差
So here the video pauses, and the student types in the answer into the box and submits. Obviously they weren't paying attention.	在这视频就暂停了 然后学生需要在方框里输入答案 然后提交.显然这些学生在走神儿
So they get to try again, and this time they got it right.	所以他们又试了一次 而这回他们答对了
There's an optional explanation if they want.	这还有一个参考的解释, 如果他们想要的话
And now the video moves on to the next part of the lecture.	然后现在视频才继续进行到讲座的下一部分
This is a kind of simple question that I as an instructor might ask in class, but when I ask that kind of a question in class, 80 percent of the students are still scribbling the last thing I said, 15 percent are zoned out on Facebook, and then there's the smarty pants in the front row who blurts out the answer before anyone else has had a chance to think about it, and I as the instructor am terribly gratified that somebody actually knew the answer.	这是一种我作为一名导师 可能会在课堂上问的简单的问题 不过当我在真正的课堂上问的时候, 80%的学生 还在琢磨我前面说的话 15%的学生都沉浸在Facebook里, 然后坐在前排的聪明蛋 直接在其他人还没机会思考的之前 一口报出正确答案. 然后作为老师我极度满足 竟然有人知道答案
And so the lecture moves on before, really, most of the students have even noticed that a question had been asked.	因此我就继续往下讲了,所以你可以看到, 大多数学生只是注意到了老师问了个问题...
Here, every single student has to engage with the material.	在这,每个学生 必须与材料接洽
And of course these simple retrieval questions are not the end of the story.	当然不光是这些回顾性的 小问题
One needs to build in much more meaningful practice questions, and one also needs to provide the students with feedback on those questions.	应该有更多的有意义的练习性问题 而且还应该在那些问题上 对学生有所回馈
Now, how do you grade the work of 100,000 students if you do not have 10,000 TAs?	那如果没有10000助教的话, 怎么样才能批改100000名学生的作业呢?
The answer is, you need to use technology to do it for you.	答案是,你得使用科技 来帮助你
Now, fortunately, technology has come a long way, and we can now grade a range of interesting types of homework.	幸运的是,科技已经很发达了 我们现在可以批改各种各样的作业
In addition to multiple choice and the kinds of short answer questions that you saw in the video, we can also grade math, mathematical expressions as well as mathematical derivations.	不光是选择题 还有那种你在视频中看到的简答题 我们还可以批改数学或者数学表达式 以及数学词源
We can grade models, whether it's financial models in a business class or physical models in a science or engineering class and we can grade some pretty sophisticated programming assignments.	我们还可以批改模型, 不管是在商业课中的金融模型 还是在科学或工程课上的物理模型 我们还能批改一些比较复杂的编程作业
Let me show you one that's actually pretty simple but fairly visual.	让我给大家看一个比较简单的 不过清晰可见
This is from Stanford's Computer Science 101 class, and the students are supposed to color-correct that blurry red image.	这是斯坦福的计算机科学101课程 学生应当去更正模糊的 红色区域
They're typing their program into the browser, and you can see they didn't get it quite right, Lady Liberty is still seasick.	他们在浏览器里直接输入自己的程序 你可以看到他们没有弄对,自由女神还没来拯救他们
And so, the student tries again, and now they got it right, and they're told that, and they can move on to the next assignment.	于是学生又试了一次,现在他们弄对了,然后他们就被告知 可以移动到下一个题目了
This ability to interact actively with the material and be told when you're right or wrong is really essential to student learning.	这种能够和材料积极互动以及 被告知自己正确与否的能力 对于学生学习是至关重要的
Now, of course we cannot yet grade the range of work that one needs for all courses.	不过,当然我们还无法批改 所有种类的作业
Specifically, what's lacking is the kind of critical thinking work that is so essential in such disciplines as the humanities, the social sciences, business and others.	确切地讲,我们缺少一种批判性思维的工作 这种思维在人文类,社会科学,商业和 其他领域都是极其关键的
So we tried to convince, for example, some of our humanities faculty that multiple choice was not such a bad strategy.	因此我们尝试去,比如说, 让人文学的教职工相信 多项选择题不是那么坏的一个策略
That didn't go over really well.	不过效果却不是很好
So we had to come up with a different solution.	因此我们必须想出另外一个办法
And the solution we ended up using is peer grading.	最后的解决方案是学生之间互批
It turns out that previous studies show, like this one by Saddler and Good, that peer grading is a surprisingly effective strategy for providing reproducible grades.	之前的研究表明 比如Saddler和Good做的这个研究, 同伴互批是一个对于提供可复写成绩的 十分有效的策略
It was tried only in small classes, but there it showed, for example, that these student-assigned grades on the y-axis are actually very well correlated with the teacher-assigned grade on the x-axis.	这曾经只在小课堂中用过, 不过这它显示了,比如说, 这些学生批改的在Y轴上的分数 实际上跟老师批改的 在X轴上的分数较为吻合
What's even more surprising is that self-grades, where the students grade their own work critically -- so long as you incentivize them properly so they can't give themselves a perfect score -- are actually even better correlated with the teacher grades.	更惊奇的是,自我批改 就是让学生自己给自己批改作业 只要你合适地激励他们, 确保他们不能随随便便就给自己一个满分- 甚至跟老师批改的成绩更加吻合
And so this is an effective strategy that can be used for grading at scale, and is also a useful learning strategy for the students, because they actually learn from the experience.	因此这是一个很有效的策略 对于大规模作业批改来说 并且还是个对于学生来说有用的学习策略 因为他们实际上从这段经验中学到了东西
So we now have the largest peer-grading pipeline ever devised, where tens of thousands of students are grading each other's work, and quite successfully, I have to say.	因此我们现在就有设计出的最大的同龄人批改线 这当中成千上万的学生 在互相批改作业 而且我必须说,这很成功
But this is not just about students sitting alone in their living room working through problems.	不过这不只是学生们 在客厅干坐着解决问题
Around each one of our courses, a community of students had formed, a global community of people around a shared intellectual endeavor.	在我们的每一个课程 一个团队的学生形成了了 一个全球性的社区 都有一个共同的智力目标
What you see here is a self-generated map from students in our Princeton Sociology 101 course, where they have put themselves on a world map, and you can really see the global reach of this kind of effort.	你在这里看到一张自动生成的地图 显示在普林斯顿社会学101课程的学生 从世界各地而来 你看以看到这种努力的全球性延伸
Students collaborated in these courses in a variety of different ways.	学生在这些课程中以不同的方式进行合作
First of all, there was a question and answer forum, where students would pose questions, and other students would answer those questions.	第一,我们有一个问答平台 学生可以提出问题, 然后其他学生可以回答问题
And the really amazing thing is, because there were so many students, it means that even if a student posed a question at 3 o'clock in the morning, somewhere around the world, there would be somebody who was awake and working on the same problem.	最惊奇的是 因为学生太多了 这意味着即使有学生在凌晨3点 提出一个问题 在世界上的某个地方 总有人会醒着 在同一问题上工作
And so, in many of our courses, the median response time for a question on the question and answer forum was 22 minutes.	因此,在许多课程中, 在问答平台上的回答时间中间值 只有22分钟
Which is not a level of service I have ever offered to my Stanford students.	这比我对我斯坦福学生的服务要好得多
And you can see from the student testimonials that students actually find that because of this large online community, they got to interact with each other in many ways that were deeper than they did in the context of the physical classroom.	你还可以从学生的证明书里看到 学生实际上发现 因为这个巨大的线上社区 学生其实可以以多种方式进行互动 这其实比在一个教室里的收获还多
Students also self-assembled, without any kind of intervention from us, into small study groups.	学生们还都"组装"自己 我们对此不进行任何干扰 组织形成学习小组
Some of these were physical study groups along geographical constraints and met on a weekly basis to work through problem sets.	这里面有些是物理学习小组 来研究地理条件限制 他们每周见面去研究一系列问题
This is the San Francisco study group, but there were ones all over the world.	这是旧金山学习小组 不过这些人都来自世界各地
Others were virtual study groups, sometimes along language lines or along cultural lines, and on the bottom left there, you see our multicultural universal study group where people explicitly wanted to connect with people from other cultures.	其他都是实质上的小组 有时候通过语言和文化来划分 在左下方这里 你看以看到我们多文化的学习小组 人们直率地去和有其他文化背景的人 主动交流
There are some tremendous opportunities to be had from this kind of framework.	这种框架的构建就带来一些 巨大的机会
The first is that it has the potential of giving us a completely unprecedented look into understanding human learning.	首先它拥有带给我们 前所未有的 在了解人类学习方面的潜力
Because the data that we can collect here is unique.	因为我们这里能收集到的数据是独一无二的
You can collect every click, every homework submission, every forum post from tens of thousands of students.	你可以收集到每一次点击,每一次作业提交 每一份来自成千上万学生的论坛帖子
So you can turn the study of human learning from the hypothesis-driven mode to the data-driven mode, a transformation that, for example, has revolutionized biology.	因此你可以将人类学习的模式 从理论假设的形式 变为以数据为基础的形式, 这是一种,比方说,已经变革生物科学的转型
You can use these data to understand fundamental questions like, what are good learning strategies that are effective versus ones that are not?	你可以通过这些数据去了解最基本的问题 比如说,哪些是好的学习策略 哪些是有效的而哪些是无效的?
And in the context of particular courses, you can ask questions like, what are some of the misconceptions that are more common and how do we help students fix them?	而在特定的几个课程背景中, 你可以问像这样的问题: 有哪些误解是十分常见的, 如何需要我们帮助学生去更正它们?
So here's an example of that, also from Andrew's Machine Learning class.	这儿有一个例子 同样是从Andrew的机器研究课程来的
This is a distribution of wrong answers to one of Andrew's assignments.	这是对于Andrew其中一项作业 所有错误答案的分布
The answers happen to be pairs of numbers, so you can draw them on this two-dimensional plot.	答案都是数对 因此你可以在二维图象里画出来
Each of the little crosses that you see is a different wrong answer.	每一个你看到的小叉叉就是一个不同的错误答案
The big cross at the top left is where 2,000 students gave the exact same wrong answer.	在左上方的大叉叉 指的是有2000个学生 得出了一样的错误答案
Now, if two students in a class of 100 give the same wrong answer, you would never notice.	现在，如果有两个学生在100人的课堂里 给出了同样的错误答案 你肯定发现不了
But when 2,000 students give the same wrong answer, it's kind of hard to miss.	不过当2000人都给出同样的错误答案 就很难看不到了
So Andrew and his students went in, looked at some of those assignments, understood the root cause of the misconception, and then they produced a targeted error message that would be provided to every student whose answer fell into that bucket, which means that students who made that same mistake would now get personalized feedback telling them how to fix their misconception much more effectively.	因此Andrew和他的学生 分析了一些作业 然后找到了误解的根本原因 然后他们创建了一条专门针对 提供错误答案学生的 特别信息 这样一来这些学生 就可以得到一种个性化的回馈 告诉他们如何更有效地更正误解
So this personalization is something that one can then build by having the virtue of large numbers.	因此这种个性化的东西是通过 利用大规模数据的优势来创建的
Personalization is perhaps one of the biggest opportunities here as well, because it provides us with the potential of solving a 30-year-old problem.	个性化估计也是这儿 最大的机会之一 因为它提供给我们一种 解决30年未决的问题的潜力
Educational researcher Benjamin Bloom, in 1984, posed what's called the 2 sigma problem, which he observed by studying three populations.	教育研究家Benjamin Bloom在1984年 提出了叫做2 sigma问题 他通过学习三种人群观察到的
The first is the population that studied in a lecture-based classroom.	第一是在以授课为基础的课堂中学习的人群
The second is a population of students that studied using a standard lecture-based classroom, but with a mastery-based approach, so the students couldn't move on to the next topic before demonstrating mastery of the previous one.	第二是使用标准的以授课为基础的课堂学习的人群 第二是使用标准的以授课为基础的课堂学习的人群 但是有一个旨在精通的方法 因此学生必须熟练掌握前一个话题才能继续学习下一个 因此学生必须熟练掌握前一个话题才能继续学习下一个
And finally, there was a population of students that were taught in a one-on-one instruction using a tutor.	最后一个就是 在导师一对一课程中受教育的人群
The mastery-based population was a full standard deviation, or sigma, in achievement scores better than the standard lecture-based class, and the individual tutoring gives you 2 sigma improvement in performance.	旨在精通的人群是完全标准差 或者sigma,他们在成就分数方面 比标准的以授课为基础的班要好得多 而导师一对一的课程在表现提高方面 就有2个sigma
To understand what that means, let's look at the lecture-based classroom, and let's pick the median performance as a threshold.	为了了解这意味着什么, 让我们看看以授课为基础的课堂吧 我们把中位数当做一个门槛
So in a lecture-based class, half the students are above that level and half are below.	因此在以授课为基础的课堂中 是一半对一半
In the individual tutoring instruction, 98 percent of the students are going to be above that threshold.	在导师一对一授课中, 98%都达到了门槛
Imagine if we could teach so that 98 percent of our students would be above average.	想象一个如果我们教的学生 98%都在平均标准之上
Hence, the 2 sigma problem.	因此,就有这个2 sigma的问题
Because we cannot afford, as a society, to provide every student with an individual human tutor.	因为我们作为一个社会不可能去给 每一个学生都提供一个一对一的导师
But maybe we can afford to provide each student with a computer or a smartphone.	但是我们可以提供给他们每人一台电脑 或者一部智能手机
So the question is, how can we use technology to push from the left side of the graph, from the blue curve, to the right side with the green curve?	因此问题是,我们如何应该使用科技 去推动我们摆脱左边蓝色的图像, 最后到达右边绿色的图像呢?
Mastery is easy to achieve using a computer, because a computer doesn't get tired of showing you the same video five times.	通过电脑来实现精通的目地是很简单的, 因为电脑对于放5遍同样的视频来说, 从来不嫌累
And it doesn't even get tired of grading the same work multiple times, we've seen that in many of the examples that I've shown you.	而且多次批改同样的作业也不会累 我们在很多我举的例子当中也看到了
And even personalization is something that we're starting to see the beginnings of, whether it's via the personalized trajectory through the curriculum or some of the personalized feedback that we've shown you.	而且甚至我们也看到 个性化的设计在逐渐开始发展 不管是通过课程中个性化的轨道 或是一些我们给大家展示的个性化反馈
So the goal here is to try and push, and see how far we can get towards the green curve.	因此我们的目标是尝试看看 我们能够多接近那个绿色的图像
So, if this is so great, are universities now obsolete?	好吧,那如果这个这么好,大学是不是过时了?
Well, Mark Twain certainly thought so.	嗯,马克吐温显然这么想,
He said that, "College is a place where a professor's lecture notes go straight to the students' lecture notes, without passing through the brains of either."	他说:"大学是一个教授的笔记 直接成为学生的笔记, 并且都没有经过两者大脑的地方."
I beg to differ with Mark Twain, though.	不过我真不敢与马克吐温苟同
I think what he was complaining about is not universities but rather the lecture-based format that so many universities spend so much time on.	我认为他在抱怨的不是大学 而是以授课为基础的课堂模式 因为这些模式在大学太流行了
So let's go back even further, to Plutarch, who said that, "The mind is not a vessel that needs filling, but wood that needs igniting."	那让我们在往回看看,回到Plutarch 他说:"思想不是一个需要填充的容器, 而是需要点燃的木头."
And maybe we should spend less time at universities filling our students' minds with content by lecturing at them, and more time igniting their creativity, their imagination and their problem-solving skills by actually talking with them.	因此或许我们应该在 通过授课填充学生脑袋的大学少花点时间, 而应当多花些时间点燃他们的创造力 他们的想象力和解决问题的能力 通过积极与他们交流来实现
So how do we do that?	那么我们怎么做呢?
We do that by doing active learning in the classroom.	我们通过主动的学习来实现
So there's been many studies, including this one, that show that if you use active learning, interacting with your students in the classroom, performance improves on every single metric -- on attendance, on engagement and on learning as measured by a standardized test.	有很多研究表明,包括这个, 如果你使用积极学习法的话, 就是与你的学生在课堂上互动, 他们的表现会在每个单位不断提高, 在出勤,在参与度,在学习方面 尤其在被一个标准测试衡量的时候
You can see, for example, that the achievement score almost doubles in this particular experiment.	你可以看到,比如说,成就分数 在这个实验中几乎都翻倍了
So maybe this is how we should spend our time at universities.	或许这就是我们如何应当度过大学时光的办法
So to summarize, if we could offer a top quality education to everyone around the world for free, what would that do? Three things.	因此总结一下,如果我们能免费向世上的每个人提供高质量的教育 因此总结一下,如果我们能免费向世上的每个人提供高质量的教育 那么会怎么样了?会是这样:
First it would establish education as a fundamental human right, where anyone around the world with the ability and the motivation could get the skills that they need to make a better life for themselves, their families and their communities.	首先教育变成了人类最基本的权利 世界上所有有能力和积极性的人 世界上所有有能力和积极性的人 都可以得到他们想需要的技能 为他们自己,他们家人, 他们的社区追求更好的生活 为他们自己,他们家人, 他们的社区追求更好的生活
Second, it would enable lifelong learning.	第二,这会使终生学习成为可能
It's a shame that for so many people, learning stops when we finish high school or when we finish college.	对于很多人,在高中或者大学结束后就再也不学了是惭愧的事 对于很多人,在高中或者大学结束后就再也不学了是惭愧的事
By having this amazing content be available, we would be able to learn something new every time we wanted, whether it's just to expand our minds or it's to change our lives.	通过这样一个项目 每当我们想要的时候,我们可以学一些新知识 每当我们想要的时候,我们可以学一些新知识 不管是用来拓展我们的思维 还是改变我们的生活
And finally, this would enable a wave of innovation, because amazing talent can be found anywhere.	最后,这个项目会带来一股创新潮 因为哪里都能找到惊人的天赋
Maybe the next Albert Einstein or the next Steve Jobs is living somewhere in a remote village in Africa.	或许下一个爱因斯坦或者乔布斯 就住在非洲一个偏远的小镇上
And if we could offer that person an education, they would be able to come up with the next big idea and make the world a better place for all of us.	而且如果我们能为那个人提供一份教育 他们可能会想出下一个极好的主意 使我们的世界变得更美好
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
I'm going to tell you a little bit about my TEDxHouston Talk.	我要跟大家讲一点 关于我的TEDx休斯敦演讲的事
I woke up the morning after I gave that Talk with the worst vulnerability hangover of my life.	在演讲之后的那个早上 是我这辈子经历过最糟糕 最脆弱的宿醉
And I actually didn't leave my house for about three days.	而且我有三天都 足不出户
The first time I left was to meet a friend for lunch.	第一次出门是去见个朋友一起吃午饭
And when I walked in, she was already at the table.	当我进去的时候，她已经在餐桌上了
And I sat down, and she said, "God, you look like hell."	然后我坐下，然后她说： "天啊，你看起来真颓"
I said, "Thanks. I feel really -- I'm not functioning."	我说："谢谢啊，我觉得 -- 我都不能正常思考了。"
And she said, "What's going on?"	然后她说："什么情况？"
And I said, "I just told 500 people that I became a researcher to avoid vulnerability.	然后我说："我刚刚告诉了 500个人， 说我成为了一个 避免脆弱的研究者。
And that when being vulnerable emerged from my data, as absolutely essential to whole-hearted living, I told these 500 people that I had a breakdown.	而当我的数据表明 保持脆弱 是全心投入生活 所不可或缺的基础时 我告诉这500个人 我崩溃了
I had a slide that said Breakdown.	我放了张幻灯片写着崩溃
At what point did I think that was a good idea?"	我是搭了哪根弦会觉得这是个好点子呢？"
And she said, "I saw your Talk live-streamed.	然后她说："我看了你演讲的现场视频了
It was not really you.	那不太像你
It was a little different than what you usually do.	跟你平常有点不一样
But it was great."	不过真的很棒"
And I said, "This can't happen.	然后我说： 我得阻止这个
YouTube, they're putting this thing on YouTube.	上YouTube，他们要把这个放到YouTube上去
And we're going to be talking about 600, 700 people."	那就是600人、700人的事了
And she said, "Well, I think it's too late."	然后她说："这样啊，我看来不及了"
And I said, "Let me ask you something."	于是我说："问你一下"
And she said, "Yeah."	她说："好"
And I said, "Do you remember when we were in college and really wild and kind of dumb?"	然后我说："你还记得在大学时代 特别疯特别傻的那时候吗？"
And she said, "Yeah."	然后她说："记得呀"
And I said, "Remember when we'd leave a really bad message on our ex-boyfriend's answering machine?	于是我说："还记得我们有时候 给前男友的答录机留了一段特别糟的话，
Then we'd have to break into his dorm room and then erase the tape?"	然后我们不得不撬开他宿舍的门， 然后把那段话抹掉的事吗？"
And she goes, "Uh ... no."	然后她说："呃。。。不记得"
So of course, the only thing I could think of to say at that point was, "Yeah, me neither.	所以当然了，我也只能说， "哦，我也没有过
That ... me neither."	那什么...我也没有"
And I'm thinking to myself, "Brene, what are you doing? What are you doing?	然后我对自己说： "布琳，你在干什么？ 你在干吗呢？
Why did you bring this up? Have you lost your mind?	你怎么会提这个？ 你昏了头了吗？
Your sisters would be perfect for this."	你的姐妹这方面是很完美的。"
So I looked back up and she said, "Are you really going to try to break in and steal the video before they put it on YouTube?"	看我回过神来于是她说： "你不会是真的想撬门进去 在他们上传到YouTube之前 把视频偷出来吧？"
And I said, "I'm just thinking about it a little bit."	我说："我就是想了一小下"
She said, "You're like the worst vulnerability role model ever."	她说："你就是史上最糟糕的脆弱者的榜样"
And then I looked at her and I said something that at the time felt a little dramatic, but ended up being more prophetic than dramatic.	然后我看着她说了一些 当时看有点戏剧性， 现在看更像是预言的话。
I said, "If 500 turns into 1,000 or 2,000, my life is over."	我说： 如果500变成1000 或者2000， 我就死定了
I had no contingency plan for four million.	我压根就没想过四百万点击率是什么情况
And my life did end when that happened.	于是我的生活真的完了
And maybe the hardest part about my life ending is that I learned something hard about myself, and that was that, as much as I would frustrated about not being able to get my work out to the world, there was a part of me that was working very hard to engineer staying small, staying right under the radar.	而或许其中最困难的 就是我发现了自身纠结的那一部分， 那就是： 一方面我会因为 无法把我的工作成果展现给公众而失落 而另一方面我又非常努力的 做到不引人注目， 隐藏在公众的视线之下。
But I want to talk about what I've learned.	但是我想讲一下我所学到的。
There's two things that I've learned in the last year.	在过去的一年我学到两件事，
The first is vulnerability is not weakness.	第一件事， 脆弱不是弱点。
And that myth is profoundly dangerous.	并且这种错误理解 是非常危险的。
Let me ask you honestly -- and I'll give you this warning, I'm trained as a therapist, so I can out-wait you uncomfortably -- so if you could just raise your hand that would be awesome -- how many of you honestly, when you're thinking about doing something vulnerable or saying something vulnerable, think, "God, vulnerability's weakness. This is weakness?"	我想诚恳的请问大家 -- 先给个提醒， 作为一个受过专业训练的治疗师， 我知道你们会感觉不太自在 -- 所以你们只要举手就很好了 -- 坦诚地讲有多少人， 当你们想到做一些脆弱的事 或说一些脆弱的话的时候， 会觉得："天啊，脆弱就是软弱，这就是软弱" ？
How many of you think of vulnerability and weakness synonymously?	有多少人认为脆弱和软弱是一回事？
The majority of people.	大部分人
Now let me ask you this question: This past week at TED, how many of you, when you saw vulnerability up here, thought it was pure courage?	现在我们这样来问： 在TED刚过去的这周， 有多少人，当你们看到脆弱的时候， 认为那是纯粹的勇气？
Vulnerability is not weakness.	脆弱不是软弱。
I define vulnerability as emotional risk, exposure, uncertainty.	我把脆弱定义为： 情感的风险、 流露，以及不确定性。
It fuels our daily lives.	它驱动我们的日常生活。
And I've come to the belief -- this is my 12th year doing this research -- that vulnerability is our most accurate measurement of courage -- to be vulnerable, to let ourselves be seen, to be honest.	并且我已经达成了这样一种信念 -- 我已经研究这个课题12年了 -- 那就是，脆弱 是对我们的勇气 最精确的衡量 -- 保留脆弱，开放自我， 保持真诚。
One of the weird things that's happened is, after the TED explosion, I got a lot of offers to speak all over the country -- everyone from schools and parent meetings to Fortune 500 companies.	有个奇怪的事就是 在TED这个演讲轰动之后， 我收到全国各地的很多邀请 -- 从学校家长会 到世界500强的公司。
And so many of the calls went like this, "Hey, Dr. Brown. We loved your TEDTalk.	很多电话都是这样的： "嗨，布朗博士，我们喜欢您的TED演讲。
We'd like you to come in and speak.	我们想邀请您来讲一讲。
We'd appreciate it if you wouldn't mention vulnerability or shame."	但有一件事 希望您不要提到脆弱或者羞耻。"
What would you like for me to talk about?	那你们想让我讲什么？
There's three big answers.	有三个主要的答案。
This is mostly, to be honest with you, from the business sector: innovation, creativity and change.	这些老实讲，主要是来自商业领域的 革新，创造 以及改变。
So let me go on the record and say, vulnerability is the birthplace of innovation, creativity and change.	那么就让我在这里 当众声明： 脆弱是革新、 创造以及改变的发源地。
To create is to make something that has never existed before.	创造就是要制造出 前所未有的东西。
There's nothing more vulnerable than that.	没有什么比这个更脆弱的了。
Adaptability to change is all about vulnerability.	适应改变的能力 全都和脆弱有关。
The second thing, in addition to really finally understanding the relationship between vulnerability and courage, the second thing I learned is this: We have to talk about shame.	第二件事， 在彻底的理解脆弱和勇气 之间的关系之外， 我所学到的第二件事就是： 我们必须得谈论羞耻。
And I'm going to be really honest with you.	我将对大家非常坦诚。
When I became a "vulnerability researcher" and that became the focus because of the TEDTalk -- and I'm not kidding.	当我成为了一个"脆弱研究员" 并且因为那个TED演讲而成为焦点之后 -- 我不是在开玩笑
I'll give you an example.	我给大家讲个例子。
About three months ago, I was in a sporting goods store buying goggles and shin guards and all the things that parents buy at the sporting goods store.	大概3个月前，当我在一家体育用品店 买泳镜啊护腿啊这些 父母买给孩子的东西的时候，
About from a hundred feet away, this is what I hear: "Vulnerability TED! Vulnerability TED!"	从大概100英尺远，我听到一个声音： "脆弱TED！脆弱TED！"
I'm a fifth generation Texan.	我是第五代的德州人
Our family motto is "Lock and load."	我们的家族格言是："子弹上膛，准备战斗"
I am not a natural vulnerability researcher.	我不是天生来研究脆弱的
So I'm like, just keep walking, she's on my six.	所以我差不多就这样， 就一直走，她在我6点钟方向。
And then I hear, "Vulnerability TED!"	然后我听到："脆弱TED！"
I turn around, I go, "Hi."	我转过身，说："嗨"
She's right here and she said, "You're the shame researcher who had the breakdown."	她就在这儿，然后她说： "你就是那个崩溃了的羞耻的研究员"
At this point parents are, like, pulling their children close.	这时侯 父母们都拉紧他们的孩子
"Look away."	"看别处"
And I'm so worn out at this point in my life, I look at her and I actually say, "It was a frickin' spiritual awakening."	这一刻我简直太无语了， 我看着她脱口而出的是： "我靠，那是一次灵魂的觉醒。"
And she looks back and does this, "I know."	然后她看着我就这样， "了解"
And she said, "We watched your TEDTalk in my book club.	然后她说： "我们在读书俱乐部看了你的TED演讲。
Then we read your book and we renamed ourselves 'The Breakdown Babes.'" And she said, "Our tagline is: 'We're falling apart and it feels fantastic.'" You can only imagine what it's like for me in a faculty meeting.	然后读了你的书 之后我们就给自己改名字叫 "崩溃辣妹" 然后她说："我们的标语是： '我们正在分崩离析而且这感觉棒极了'" 你们就能想象 我在教师会上是个什么情形了
So when I became Vulnerability TED, like an action figure -- like Ninja Barbie, but I'm Vulnerability TED -- I thought, I'm going to leave that shame stuff behind, because I spent six years studying shame before I really started writing and talking about vulnerability.	所以当我成了 脆弱TED 像个玩具公仔 比如忍者芭比，只不过我叫 脆弱TED 我想，我该把羞耻感研究放一放了 因为在正式开始谈和写作关于脆弱之前 我花了6年的时间来研究羞耻感
And I thought, thank God, because shame is this horrible topic, no one wants to talk about it.	我当时想，谢天谢地，因为羞耻是个这么可怕的话题 没人想谈论它
It's the best way to shut people down on an airplane.	它是让飞机上搭讪的人闭嘴的最好方法
"What do you do?" "I study shame." "Oh."	"您是做什么的？" "我学习羞耻" "哦"
And I see you.	而且我看透你
But in surviving this last year, I was reminded of a cardinal rule -- not a research rule, but a moral imperative from my upbringing -- you've got to dance with the one who brung ya.	但是在过去一年的挣扎中 我被一个基本守则所提醒着 -- 不是做研究的守则 而是基于我所受教育的 一种道义上的驱使 -- 你只能打好手里已经有的牌
And I did not learn about vulnerability and courage and creativity and innovation from studying vulnerability.	我并没有通过研究脆弱而学习到 勇气、创造、革新 以及脆弱。
I learned about these things from studying shame.	我是通过研究羞耻 而学到这些。
And so I want to walk you in to shame.	因此我想带大家 走进羞耻感。
Jungian analysts call shame the swampland of the soul.	荣格学派把羞耻称作是 灵魂的沼泽地
And we're going to walk in.	而我们就即将踏入。
And the purpose is not to walk in and construct a home and live there.	目的并不是走进去 造个房子住下来。
It is to put on some galoshes and walk through and find our way around.	而是穿上胶鞋 穿过去并找出可以走的路。
Here's why.	这是因为
We heard the most compelling call ever to have a conversation in this country, and I think globally, around race, right?	我们已经听到最迫切的呼吁 要在这个国家进行一场对话 而且我想全世界都是这样， 一场围绕种族问题的对话，是吧？
Yes? We heard that.	对吗？我们听到了
Yes?	对吗？
Cannot have that conversation without shame, because you cannot talk about race without talking about privilege.	不谈羞耻就不会有这场对话 因为谈种族不可能不谈到特权
And when people start talking about privilege, they get paralyzed by shame.	而当人们谈到特权的时候， 他们就被羞耻感所淹没了
We heard a brilliant simple solution to not killing people in surgery, which is have a checklist.	我们听说了一个简单有效的方法 来降低手术中病人的死亡率， 就是准备一个事项清单。
You can't fix that problem without addressing shame, because when they teach those folks how to suture, they also teach them how to stitch their self-worth to being all-powerful.	不解决羞耻感就不会有这个方案， 因为当他们教那些人如何缝合的时候， 他们也同时教会那些人如何编织自己的自尊 直到认为自己是全能的。
And all-powerful folks don't need checklists.	而全能的人是不需要事项清单的。
And I had to write down the name of this TED Fellow so I didn't mess it up here.	这里我不得不把这位TED同伴的名字写下来 以防止弄错
Myshkin Ingawale, I hope I did right by you.	梅什金·英格瓦莱 希望我拼对了
I saw the TED Fellows my first day here.	在这儿的第一天我见到TED的同伴们。
And he got up and he explained how he was driven to create some technology to help test for anemia because people were dying unnecessarily.	他站起来解释 是什么驱使他创造某种 帮助检测贫血的技术 以防止病人没必要的死亡
And he said, "I saw this need.	他说："我看到了这个需要，
So you know what I did? I made it."	你猜怎么？我做了一个"
And everybody just burst into applause, and they were like "Yes!"	于是全场爆发出掌声，"真棒！"
And he said, "And it didn't work.	然后他继续说："但是它不管用"
And then I made it 32 more times, and then it worked."	然后我又试了32次， 然后它成了。"
You know what the big secret about TED is?	你知道TED最大的秘密是什么吗？
I can't wait to tell people this.	我等不及想告诉大家
I guess I'm doing it right now.	我现在就在说吧
This is like the failure conference.	这就像是一个失败者的会议。
No, it is.	不，它就是。
You know why this place is amazing?	为什么这地方很神奇？
Because very few people here are afraid to fail.	因为这里几乎没有人 是害怕失败的。
And no one who gets on the stage, so far that I've seen, has not failed.	而站在这个舞台上的还没有人，据我所知，是未曾失败过的。
I've failed miserably, many times.	我曾经败的很惨，很多次。
I don't think the world understands that because of shame.	我觉得大部分人不明白这个道理 出于羞耻感。
There's a great quote that saved me this past year by Theodore Roosevelt.	去年有这么一段话对我帮助很大 来自西奥多·罗斯福
A lot of people refer to it as the "Man in the Arena" quote.	很多人把它引用为"竞技场里的男人"。
And it goes like this: "It is not the critic who counts.	它是这样的： "荣誉不属于那些批评家。
It is not the man who sits and points out how the doer of deeds could have done things better and how he falls and stumbles.	也不是那些坐在一旁 对真正的做事者指指点点 品头论足的人。
The credit goes to the man in the arena whose face is marred with dust and blood and sweat.	荣誉归于竞技场里的男人 他的面容 被尘土、鲜血和汗水所模糊。
But when he's in the arena, at best he wins, and at worst he loses, but when he fails, when he loses, he does so daring greatly."	但当他站在竞技场内， 至好他能获胜， 至差他会失败。 但是当他失败时，当他输掉时， 他失败得如此的无所畏惧。"
And that's what this conference, to me, is about.	这就是它带给我的意义
That's what life is about, about daring greatly, about being in the arena.	关于生命的意义，关于无所畏惧， 关于站到竞技场上。
When you walk up to that arena and you put your hand on the door, and you think, "I'm going in and I'm going to try this," shame is the gremlin who says, "Uh, uh.	当你走上竞技场把手放到门上， 你想："我要进去，我要做这件事" 羞耻就是一个小精灵 在你耳边说："啊哦，
You're not good enough.	你不够好。
You never finished that MBA. Your wife left you.	你从没拿到MBA学位。你妻子离开你了。
I know your dad really wasn't in Luxembourg, he was in Sing Sing.	我知道你爸爸不是在卢森堡 他是在新新 。
I know those things that happened to you growing up.	我知道你从小到大的糗事。
I know you don't think that you're pretty enough or smart enough or talented enough or powerful enough.	我知道你也清楚自己不够漂亮 或者不够聪明或者不够有才或者不够强壮。
I know your dad never paid attention, even when you made CFO."	我知道即使你当上了CFO你爸爸也从来没在意过。"
Shame is that thing.	羞耻就是这样。
And if we can quiet it down and walk in and say, "I'm going to do this," we look up and the critic that we see pointing and laughing, 99 percent of the time is who?	而如果我们能平静下来，走进去 对自己说："我要做这件事" 我们抬起头 看到那些指指点点嘲笑的人， 99%的时候是谁？
Us.	是我们自己。
Shame drives two big tapes -- "never good enough" and, if you can talk it out of that one, "who do you think you are?"	羞耻始终播放着这样两句话 -- "永远不够好" 然后，如果你能跨过这一层， "你以为你是谁啊？"
The thing to understand about shame is it's not guilt.	需要理解的是羞耻不是内疚。
Shame is a focus on self, guilt is a focus on behavior.	羞耻专注于自身，内疚专注于行为。
Shame is "I am bad."	羞耻是"我很糟"
Guilt is "I did something bad."	内疚是"我做了很糟的事"
How many of you, if you did something that was hurtful to me, would be willing to say, "I'm sorry. I made a mistake?"	在座的有多少人， 如果你们做了一些伤害我的事， 会愿意说："对不起，我犯了个错误"？
How many of you would be willing to say that?	有多少人会愿意这么说？
Guilt: I'm sorry. I made a mistake.	内疚：对不起，我犯了个错误。
Shame: I'm sorry. I am a mistake.	羞耻：对不起，我就是个错误。
There's a huge difference between shame and guilt.	羞耻和内疚之间有巨大的差别。
And here's what you need to know.	大家需要知道这些。
Shame is highly, highly correlated with addiction, depression, violence, aggression, bullying, suicide, eating disorders.	羞耻是和下面这些行为高度相关的 吸毒，抑郁，暴力，侵略 欺凌，自杀，饮食失调。
And here's what you even need to know more.	而更需要知道的是，
Guilt, inversely correlated with those things.	内疚，则是恰恰相反。
The ability to hold something we've done or failed to do up against who we want to be is incredibly adaptive.	用我们已经做过或做错的事 来拷问理想的自己 这种程度是可以非常灵活的。
It's uncomfortable, but it's adaptive.	它不舒服，但是是可以调节的。
The other thing you need to know about shame is it's absolutely organized by gender.	关于羞耻还需要知道的另一件事 就是它是完全被性别所导向的
If shame washes over me and washes over Chris, it's going to feel the same.	当羞耻感涌上我的心头和克里斯的心头， 那感觉都是一样的。
Everyone sitting in here knows the warm wash of shame.	这里每个人都知道那是一种什么滋味。
We're pretty sure that the only people who don't experience shame are people who have no capacity for connection or empathy.	我们可以很确定的说唯一不会感到羞耻的人 就是不能建立关系 或者不能感同身受的人。
Which means, yes, I have a little shame; no, I'm a sociopath.	意思就是，是，我有一点羞耻； 不，我只是不爱交际。
So I would opt for, yes, you have a little shame.	那么我就会认为，是，你有一点羞耻感。
Shame feels the same for men and women, but it's organized by gender.	羞耻的感受对于男人和女人都是一样的， 但却根据性别有不同的处理方式。
For women, the best example I can give you is Enjoli the commercial: "I can put the wash on the line, pack the lunches, hand out the kisses and be at work at five to nine.	对于女人， 我能想到的最好的例子就是 恩乔丽 （香水品牌） 那个广告 我可以打着电话把衣服洗完， 打包午餐，亲吻孩子的脸 工作从5点到9点
I can bring home the bacon, fry it up in the pan and never let you forget you're a man."	我可以带回家培根，把它放到火上煎 永远不让你忘了做男人的尊严。"
For women, shame is do it all, do it perfectly and never let them see you sweat.	对女人，羞耻就是事无巨细， 尽善尽美 而且从来不让别人看到你流汗。
I don't know how much perfume that commercial sold, but I guarantee you, it moved a lot of antidepressants and anti-anxiety meds.	我不知道这广告卖了多少香水， 但我保证， 它省了不少抗抑郁药和抗焦虑药。
Shame, for women, is this web of unobtainable, conflicting, competing expectations about who we're supposed to be.	羞耻，对于女人，是一张网 是一张由难以实现的、冲突的、抵触的期望所织成的 关于理想的自己的网。
And it's a straight-jacket.	是一件紧身衣。
For men, shame is not a bunch of competing, conflicting expectations.	对于男人， 羞耻并不是一系列彼此冲突的期望。
Shame is one, do not be perceived as what?	羞耻是一样东西， 不要被认为什么？
Weak.	弱。
I did not interview men for the first four years of my study.	我研究的开始4年中没采访过男人
And it wasn't until a man looked at me one day after a book signing, said, "I love what you have to say about shame, I'm curious why you didn't mention men."	直到有一天在图书签售会后，一个男人看着我说： "我欣赏你关于羞耻感的观点， 我很好奇为什么你没提到男人。"
And I said, "I don't study men."	我说："我不研究男人"
And he said, "That's convenient."	然后他说："这倒真是省事啊"
And I said, "Why?"	我说："为什么这么说？"
And he said, "Because you say to reach out, tell our story, be vulnerable.	他说："因为你说要走出去， 讲自己的经历， 不掩饰脆弱。
But you see those books you just signed for my wife and my three daughters?"	但是你看到这些你刚刚 给我妻子和三个孩子签名的书了吗？"
I said, "Yeah."	我说："嗯"
"They'd rather me die on top of my white horse than watch me fall down.	"她们现在宁愿看着我骑着白马英勇的死掉 也不愿看到我掉下来。
When we reach out and be vulnerable we get the shit beat out of us.	当我们走出去展现脆弱的时候 我们会被乱拳打死的。
And don't tell me it's from the guys and the coaches and the dads, because the women in my life are harder on me than anyone else."	而且别跟我说 这是教练啊老爹啊这些男人这么做的， 因为我生命中的女人们才是对我最残忍的。"
So I started interviewing men and asking questions.	于是我开始采访男人 向他们提问。
And what I learned is this: You show me a woman who can actually sit with a man in real vulnerability and fear, I'll show you a woman who's done incredible work.	而我所学到的就是： 如果你能给我找到这样一个女人，她确实能陪在一个 被脆弱和恐惧所淹没的男人旁边， 那么我就能给你找出能完成不可思议工作的女人。
You show me a man who can sit with a woman who's just had it, she can't do it all anymore, and his first response is not, "I unloaded the dishwasher," but he really listens -- because that's all we need -- I'll show you a guy who's done a lot of work.	你如果能给我找到这样一个男人，他可以陪在一个 已经快到底线， 再也无法承受的女人旁边， 而且他的第一反应并不是： "我把碗都洗好啦" （意指只会机械的做家务而不懂沟通） 而是他能真切的聆听 -- 因为那就是我们所需要的 -- 那我就能给你找到真正能干的男人。
Shame is an epidemic in our culture.	羞耻感是我们文化中的一种流行病，
And to get out from underneath it, to find our way back to each other, we have to understand how it affects us and how it affects the way we're parenting, the way we're working, the way we're looking at each other.	为了脱离这个困境， 找到重归彼此的路， 我们必需要理解它是如何影响我们 以及它如何影响我们教育孩子的方式， 工作的方式，看待彼此的方式。
Very quickly, some research by Mahalik at Boston College.	非常快的分享一些来自波士顿大学的马哈立克的研究成果
He asked, what do women need to do to conform to female norms?	他提出了一个问题：怎样做才算是个标准的女人？
The top answers in this country: nice, thin, modest and use all available resources for appearance.	在这个国家排前几位的答案是： 善良，苗条，端庄 并且运用一些资源来美化外表。
When he asked about men, what do men in this country need to do to conform with male norms, the answers were: always show emotional control, work is first, pursue status and violence.	当他问男人们， 这个国家的男人们需要怎么做 才算是个标准男人， 答案是： 永远喜怒不形于色，工作第一， 追求地位以及暴力。
If we're going to find our way back to each other, we have to understand and know empathy, because empathy's the antidote to shame.	如果我们想找到重归彼此的路， 我们必须知道并理解共鸣， 因为共鸣是羞耻的解药。
If you put shame in a Petri dish, it needs three things to grow exponentially: secrecy, silence and judgment.	如果你把羞耻放入培养皿， 它需要三样东西来成倍繁殖： 隐蔽、沉默，以及裁决
If you put the same amount of shame in a Petri dish and douse it with empathy, it can't survive.	如果你放同样量的羞耻到培养皿里并且浇上共鸣， 它就不能存活。
The two most powerful words when we're in struggle: me too.	在争执中最有力的三个字： 我也是。
And so I'll leave you with this thought.	所以我想把这些思考留给大家。
If we're going to find our way back to each other, vulnerability is going to be that path.	如果我们想找到 重归彼此的方法。 脆弱将会是正确的路径。
And I know it's seductive to stand outside the arena, because I think I did it my whole life, and think to myself, I'm going to go in there and kick some ass when I'm bulletproof and when I'm perfect.	我知道站在竞技场外面是很诱人的， 因为我想我一辈子都在这么做， 并且对自己说， 我要进去踢某人的屁股 只要我已经刀枪不入并且完美无瑕。
And that is seductive.	这就是种诱惑。
But the truth is that never happens.	不过真相是这永远不会发生。
And even if you got as perfect as you could and as bulletproof as you could possibly muster when you got in there, that's not what we want to see.	而且即使你已经尽可能的完美了 并且把自己尽可能的装备成刀枪不入 当你进去的时候， 那并不是我们想看到的。
We want you to go in.	我们希望你进去。
We want to be with you and across from you.	我们想和你在一起和你面对面。
And we just want, for ourselves and the people we care about and the people we work with, to dare greatly.	我们只是想要， 为我们自己和我们在意的人 以及和我们一起战斗的人， 无所畏惧的征战。
So thank you all very much. I really appreciate it.	非常感谢大家。真的很感激。
In 1975, I met in Florence a professor, Carlo Pedretti, my former professor of art history, and today a world-renowned scholar of Leonardo da Vinci.	1975年，我在佛罗伦萨巧遇了卡洛·佩德雷蒂教授， 我曾经的艺术史老师，如今他 已是位享誉世界的莱昂纳多达芬奇研究家。
Well, he asked me if I could find some technological way to unfold a five-centuries-old mystery related to a lost masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci, the "Battle of Anghiari," which is supposed to be located in the Hall of the 500 in Palazzo Vecchio, in Florence.	他问我是否能找到一些技术手段 去解开一个长达五个世纪的谜团， 关于达芬奇失传的作品—— 那幅本来应该保存于佛罗伦萨的韦奇奥宫 500人大厅的名画""安吉亚里之战"。
Well, in the mid-'70s, there were not great opportunities for a bioengineer like me, especially in Italy, and so I decided, with some researchers from the United States and the University of Florence, to start probing the murals decorated by Vasari on the long walls of the Hall of the 500 searching for the lost Leonardo.	但是在上个世纪70年代没有太多施展才华的机会 给我们这些生物工程学家，尤其是在意大利，所以 我决定，加入一个由美国学者 和佛罗伦萨大学共同发起的研究团队，深入探究那些 由瓦萨里主持装饰在500人大厅墙上的壁画 搜索莱昂纳多达芬奇丢失的作品。
Unfortunately, at that time we did not know that that was not exactly where we should be looking, because we had to go much deeper in, and so the research came to a halt, and it was only taken up in 2000 thanks to the interest and the enthusiasm of the Guinness family.	不幸的是，那时候我们还处在起步阶段 完全没有任何头绪，不知道该从哪里开始寻找， 所以我们并没有取得什么实质进展，因为我们没有深入的搜索， 研究也因此停滞不前，直到2000年 靠着吉尼斯家族的鼎力相助，研究活动才得以再度开展。
Well, this time, we focused on trying to reconstruct the way the Hall of the 500 was before the remodeling, and the so-called Sala Grande, which was built in 1494, and to find out the original doors, windows, and in order to do that, we first created a 3D model, and then, with thermography, we went on to discover hidden windows. These are the original windows of the hall of the Sala Grande. We also found out about the height of the ceiling, and we managed to reconstruct, therefore, all the layout of this original hall the way it was before there came Vasari, and restructured the whole thing, including a staircase that was very important in order to precisely place "The Battle of Anghiari" on a specific area of one of the two walls.	所以，这次我们将竭尽全力重现500人大厅 重修之前的本来面目， 不仅如此我们还要重现传说中建于1494年的萨拉格兰德墙， 为了重现当年的那些门窗， 为了达到这一目的，我们首先制作了一些3D模型， 随后依靠热成像技术，我们找到了一些 隐藏起来的的窗户。这些窗户都是最初 存在于萨拉格兰德墙上的。不仅如此我们还测出了 最初天花板的高度，经过我们的不懈努力， 最终，我们找出了瓦萨里改造之前 500人大厅的原始规划与布局 并且成功的重现了这一切 包括一个非常重要的扶梯 此扶梯是当时为了准确安放""安吉亚里之战" 而准备的众多工具之一。
Well, we also learned that Vasari, who was commissioned to remodel the Hall of the 500 between 1560 and 1574 by the Grand Duke Cosimo I of the Medici family, we have at least two instances when he saved masterpieces specifically by placing a brick wall in front of it and leaving a small air gap.	而且我们还找到至少两个保护珍惜艺术品的案例， 由美第奇家族的大公爵科西莫一世授权负责 1560年和1574年500人大厅 改造工程的瓦萨里先生所设计。 具体措施是留出少许的间隙在新墙壁 与原有墙壁之间。
One that we [see] here, Masaccio, the church of Santa Maria Novella in Florence, so we just said, well maybe, Visari has done something like that in the case of this great work of art by Leonardo, since he was a great admirer of Leonardo da Vinci.	其中之一是在佛罗伦萨圣塔玛利亚·诺维拉教堂，保护马萨乔的作品， 所以我们推测，也许，瓦萨里在500人大厅工程上 也会用相同的方法保护达芬奇的伟大艺术品， 因为他也是达芬奇的铁杆粉丝。
And so we built some very sophisticated radio antennas just for probing both walls and searching for an air gap.	于是我们专门搭建一些非常复杂的雷达装置 专门对墙壁进行侦测，希望能找到存在于墙于墙之前的间隙。
And we did find many on the right panel of the east wall, an air gap, and that's where we believe "The Battle of Anghiari," or at least the part that we know has been painted, which is called "The Fight for the Standard," should be located.	最终我们确实找到了类似的间隙位于东墙的右侧， 一个间隙，而且那里恰恰是 我们一直推测的""安吉亚里之战"被放置的位置， 或者至少是另一幅壁画 "为军旗而战"的所在地。
Well, from there, unfortunately, in 2004, the project came to a halt. Many political reasons.	很可惜的是 2004年我们的研究活动被迫中止 因为各种各样的政治因素
So I decided to go back to my alma mater, and, at the University of California, San Diego, and I proposed to open up a research center for engineering sciences for cultural heritage.	所以我那时决定回到我的母校， 加州大学圣地亚哥分校， 随后在我的倡议下 为了更好的把工程科学运用到文化遗产的研究上，
And in 2007, we created CISA3 as a research center for cultural heritage, specifically art, architecture and archaeology. So students started to flow in, and we started to build technologies, because that's basically what we also needed in order to move forward and go and do fieldwork.	我校在2007年成立了CISA3 研究中心， 具体研究包括文化遗产，艺术，建筑学和 考古学。 愈来愈多的学生加入了我们， 自此我们开始开发各种必要的技术，因为 我们认为只有开发更多的技术才能 在实践工作中取得进展。
We came back in the Hall of the 500 in 2011, and this time, with a great group of students, and my colleague, Professor Falko Kuester, who is now the director at CISA3, and we came back just since we knew already where to look for to find out if there was still something left.	我们在2011重返500人大厅， 这一次，多了一大批优秀的学生 以及我的同事，CISA3现任主管， 法考库斯特教授， 我们这次回来 已经是胸有成竹，我们知道这次该去哪找， 找出那里究竟还有什么。
Well, we were confined though, limited, I should rather say, for several reasons that it's not worth explaining, to endoscopy only, of the many other options we had, and with a 4mm camera attached to it, we were successful in documenting and taking some fragments of what it turns out to be a reddish color, black color, and there is some beige fragments that later on we ran a much more sophisticated exams, XRF, X-ray diffraction, and the results are very positive so far. It seems to indicate that indeed we have found some pigments, and since we know for sure that no other artist has painted on that wall before Vasari came in about 60 years later, well, those pigments are therefore firmly related to mural painting and most likely to Leonardo.	但是我们遇到各种刁难，或者说被限制 因为一些根本不值得解释的原因 虽然我们有很多其他选择，却只能使用内镜检查技术 通过一个4毫米镜头来窥视， 我们最终还是成功的证明 并且发现一些彩色的碎片 包括淡红色碎片，黑色碎片 一些米黄色碎片随后也被发现 我们立刻对这些碎片展开了更多复杂的检验 包括射线荧光光谱，X光射线衍射，最终的结果对于我们的推测非常有利 至此，我们认为这个现象指出 我们确实找到了一些颜料，而且我们能肯定 没有其他的艺术家曾经在这张墙上作画 直到大约六十年后瓦萨里来到这里，所以， 这些颜料已经被确定跟壁画有密切的联系 很有可能就是达芬奇那幅。
Well, we are searching for the highest and highly praised work of art ever achieved by mankind.	要知道，我们的研究是为了人类有史以来 最崇高最伟大的艺术成就。
As a matter of fact, this is by far the most important commission that Leonardo has ever had, and for doing this great masterpiece, he was named the number one artist influence at the time.	一个重要是事实就是，这幅作品也是达芬奇目前为止 接受的最重要的委托， 正是因为这幅作品，他才被认为是 那个时代最有影响力的艺术家。
I had also had the privilege since the last 37 years to work on several masterpieces as you can see behind me, but basically to do what? Well, to assess, for example, the state of conservation. See here the face of the Madonna of the Chair that when just shining a UV light on it you suddenly see another, different lady, aged lady, I should rather say.	我非常荣幸在过去的37年里 可以为这些杰作而工作，您可以看到他们就在我身后， 不过您知道我的工作到底是什么吗？ 其实，就是对他们进行检验，比如 这件稀世珍宝。看这里 "椅子上的麦当娜" 当紫外线照在这位女士脸上的时候 你会突然看到另一位，不同的女士 年长的女士，我应该这么说。
There is a lot of varnish still sitting there, several retouches, and some over cleaning. It becomes very visible.	有很多亮光漆还在她脸上，很多处的润饰， 有些地方过度清洗。所以很容易看出来。
But also, technology has helped to write new pages of our history, or at least to update pages of our histories.	不仅如此，科技也已经为我们的历史写下了新的篇章 或者说至少更新了我们的历史。
For example, the "Lady with the Unicorn," another painting by Rafael, well, you see the unicorn.	比如这幅"女士和独角兽" 拉斐尔的作品，你们都看到独角兽了对吧。
A lot has been said and written about the unicorn, but if you take an X-ray of the unicorn, it becomes a puppy dog.	这只独角兽引发了各种各样的推测与讨论，但是 如果给独角兽拍张X光的话，它就变成了一只小狗。
And — — no problem, but, unfortunately, continuing with the scientific examination of this painting came out that Rafael did not paint the unicorn, did not paint the puppy dog, actually left the painting unfinished, so all this writing about the exotic symbol of the unicorn — — unfortunately, is not very reliable.	然后，毫无疑问，但是，不幸的是 对这幅画的进一步科学检验得出的结论是 拉斐尔并没有画独角兽 也没有画小狗，事实上这是一幅 未完成的作品，于是乎所有关于这个奇异的独角兽的一切 天马行空的想象 很不幸 都不是很可靠。
Well, also, authenticity. Just think for a moment if science really could move in the field of authenticity of works of art. There would be a cultural revolution to say the least, but also, I would say, a market revolution, let me add. Take this example: Otto Marseus, nice painting, which is "Still Life" at the Pitti Gallery, and just have an infrared camera peering through, and luckily for art historians, it just was confirmed that there is a signature of Otto Marseus. It even says when it was made and also the location.	同样的，真实性。稍微思考下 如果有朝一日科学可以进入艺术品真伪 的鉴定领域。那将是一场文化的革命， 即使退一步讲，我认为，也是艺术品市场的革命， 让我补充下这个问题，做一下这个实验 奥托·玛苏斯的名画"静止的生命"，它保存在 碧提宫画廊，刚刚经过红外线扫描， 对于艺术史学家来说很幸运，它刚被确认为真迹 因为有奥托玛苏斯的签名在上面。检测甚至告诉我们 画是何时何地所做。
So that was a good result. Sometimes, it's not that good, and so, again, authenticity and science could go together and change the way, not attributions being made, but at least lay the ground for a more objective, or, I should rather say, less subjective attribution, as it is done today.	所以说那是一个好结果。有时候，也不尽是好消息， 所以，再一次的，科学和真实性是可以携手 改变我们鉴赏艺术的方式，不影响我们欣赏艺术的初衷， 却使我们至少可以更客观的看待艺术 或者说少一些主观臆断 就像今天我们做的这些。
But I would say the discovery that really caught my imagination, my admiration, is the incredibly vivid drawing under this layer, brown layer, of "The Adoration of the Magi." Here you see a handmade setting XYZ scanner with an infrared camera put on it, and just peering through this brown layer of this masterpiece to reveal what could have been underneath.	但是我想说这次的发现深深的勾起了 我的想象力，我的仰慕之情，是一副非常不可思议的 画作隐藏在这层棕褐色外层下， 在"贤士来朝" 这幅作品里。这里您可以看到 一架人工搭建的红外成像扫描仪 刚刚穿过这幅画褐棕色的 层颜料进行了细致的扫描 试图找到在表层颜料之下还有什么秘密
Well, this happens to be the most important painting we have in Italy by Leonardo da Vinci, and look at the wonderful images of faces that nobody has seen for five centuries. Look at these portraits.	非常好，我们恰好发现了这些在 达芬奇创作于意大利的重要作品中 这些美妙的脸部肖相，自它诞生之日至今5个世纪， 从未展现在世人眼前。看看这些人物肖像
They're magnificent. You see Leonardo at work.	他们简直是太了不起了。 你们亲眼见证了达芬奇的技艺
You see the geniality of his creation, right directly on the ground layer of the panel, and see this cool thing, finding, I should rather say, an elephant. Because of this elephant, over 70 new images came out, never seen for centuries.	你们看到了他作品中的温情，真真切切的 体现在这张画的底层深处，再来看看 这个很酷发现，我也许应该说 一只大象。 因为这只大象， 还有超过70幅肖像一一浮现，数个世纪都没有人看到。
This was an epiphany. We came to understand and to prove that the brown coating that we see today was not done by Leonardo da Vinci, which left us only the other drawing that for five centuries we were not able to see, so thanks only to technology.	这个发现犹如醍醐灌顶。我们才开始明白 并证明了这些我们所看到的褐色外层 并不是出自达芬奇之手，从而让我们 五个世纪都无人看到这些画作， 所以除了感谢科学还是只能感谢科学。
Well, the tablet. Well, we thought, well, if we all have this pleasure, this privilege to see all this, to find all these discoveries, what about for everybody else?	好吧，说说平板电脑吧，我们觉得，不应该只有我们研究者 有这个荣幸去享受到发掘和 探究这些秘密的快乐，怎么才能让更多的人得到这个机会呢？
So we thought of an augmented reality application using a tablet. Let me show you just simulating what we could be doing, any of us could be doing, in a museum environment.	所以我们想到开发一种可以广泛应用的应用程序 运行在平板电脑上。让我展示给大家 我们可以用它来做什么，大家都可以在 博物馆里这样做。
So let's say that we go to a museum with a tablet, okay?	像我这样带着平板电脑来到博物馆，可以吧？
And we just aim the camera of the tablet to the painting that we are interested to see, like this.	然后我们只需要用镜头对准 我们感兴趣的作品去看，就像这样。
Okay? And I will just click on it, we pause, and now let me turn to you so the moment the image, or, I should say, the camera, has locked in the painting, then the images you just saw up there in the drawing are being loaded. And so, see.	没问题吧?然后我只要点一下这里，我们暂停， 然后现在让我把它转向你们，所以你们可以看到那一刻 或者我应该说，摄像头，已经锁定了油画 然后你们刚刚看到的那些神秘的画中画 已经被保存在电脑里。所以看着
We can, as we said, we can zoom in. Then we can scroll.	我们可以，就像我说过得，我们可以放大。我们可以拖拽它。
Okay? Let's go and find the elephant.	没问题吧？让我们开始寻找大象吧。
So all we need is one finger. Just wipe off and we see the elephant.	所以我们只需要一只手指。只需要擦掉他们 然后我们就看到大象了
Okay? And then if we want, we can continue the scroll to find out, for example, on the staircase, the whole iconography is going to be changed. There are a lot of laymen reconstructing from the ruins of an old temple a new temple, and there are a lot of figures showing up. See?	不错吧？不仅如此只要你想， 我们可以继续在它上面寻找，比如，举个例子， 在楼梯那个例子里，整个图解都会被 改变。那里有很多外行人也可以再现出 来自旧神庙废墟的新神庙， 而且可以看到很多人影出现了。看吧？
This is not just a curiosity, because it changes not just the iconography as you see it, but the iconology, the meaning of the painting, and we believe this is a cool way, easy way, that everybody could have access to, to become more the protagonist of your own discovery, and not just be so passive about it, as we are when we walk through endless rooms of museums.	这不只是满足好奇心，因为它改变的 不只是你看到的图像，还改变了图像学， 和这幅画的意义 并且我们相信这个方式很时髦，简单， 所以每个人都能掌握它， 当走过博物馆无数的房间时， 你可以成为探险故事的主演， 而不是被动的去欣赏。
Another concept is the digital clinical chart, which sounds very obvious if we were to talk about real patients, but when we talk about works of art, unfortunately, it's never been tapped as an idea.	另一个概念叫做数字化临床图表，听起来非常容易理解 就如同我们面对的是真正的病人， 很不幸，当我们面对艺术品的时候， 还没有人从这种角度出发。
Well, we believe, again, that this should be the beginning, the very first step, to do real conservation, and allowing us to really explore and to understand everything related to the state of our conservation, the technique, materials, and also if, when, and why we should restore, or, rather, to intervene on the environment surrounding the painting.	但是，我们相信，有信心认为这个理念需要开始落实， 第一步，去做真正的保护工作， 允许我们这样的人，进行真实的探索和研究 所有与这些稀世珍宝有关的一切， 包括技巧、原料，以及我们该何时 以及处于何种目的去修复，或者，去干涉 画作周围的环境。
Well, our vision is to rediscover the spirit of the Renaissance, create a new discipline where engineering for cultural heritage is actually a symbol of blending art and science together.	其实，我们的观点是去重新发掘 文艺复兴的精神，创造一个新的准则 为保护文化遗产而衍生出的工程学，实际上 已经成为把艺术与科学融合在一起的标志。
We definitely need a new breed of engineers that will go out and do this kind of work and rediscover for us these values, these cultural values that we badly need, especially today.	为此我们肯定需要新一代的工程师 我们会到世界各地做这些工作 重新发掘艺术作品，这些文化价值 对于今天的我们是特别急需的。
And if you want to summarize in one just single word, well, this is what we're trying to do.	如果你想把这些做个总结， 那么，这就是我们正在奋斗的方向——
We're trying to give a future to our past in order to have a future.	我们正努力将未来应用到历史之中 目的是拥有一个更好的未来。
As long as we live a life of curiosity and passion, there is a bit of Leonardo in all of us. Thank you.	只要我们的生活充满好奇与激情 每个人都是艺术家，就像达芬奇一样。谢谢大家。
In 1991 I had maybe the most profound and transformative experience of my life.	1991年可能是我一生中 最重要也是改变我最大的 一年。
I was in the third year of my seven-year undergraduate degree.	在我七年的本科里，我当时大三。
I took a couple victory laps in there.	我复读了好几届。
And I was on a college choir tour up in Northern California, and we had stopped for the day after all day on the bus, and we were relaxing next to this beautiful idyllic lake in the mountains.	一天，我参加了大学合唱队的北加州演出之旅， 坐了一天的巴士后，我们终于停了下来， 当时我们正在山里的一个美丽的湖泊旁 休息。
And there were crickets and birds and frogs making noise, and as we sat there, over the mountains coming in from the north were these Steven Spielbergian clouds rolling toward us, and as the clouds got about halfway over the valley, so help me God, every single animal in that place stopped making noise at the same time.	蟋蟀、小鸟、蛙声一片， 我们坐在那儿，山的北边飘来大朵厚厚的 似史蒂芬斯·皮尔伯格电影里的云团 朝我们席卷过来， 当云团飘到山谷一半时， 不可思议的事情发生了----山谷里所有动物发出的声音 嘎然而止。
This electric hush, as if they could sense what was about to happen.	（呼唏）万籁俱寂，好像它们感觉到要发生什么，
And then the clouds came over us, and then, boom! This massive thunderclap, and sheets of rain.	然后，云团飘到我们头顶，突然， 嘣！霹雳雷震，大雨如织。
It was just extraordinary, and when I came back home I found a poem by the Mexican poet Octavio Paz, and decided to set it to music, a piece for choir called "Cloudburst," which is the piece that we'll perform for you in just a moment.	太震撼了！我回到家后 找到一首墨西哥诗人奥克塔维奥·帕斯写的诗， 并决定把它谱成曲， 一首合唱曲目，叫《暴雨》， 一会儿我们即将为各位演唱这首歌曲。
Now fast forward to just three years ago.	但现在，先让我们回到三年前，
And we released to YouTube this, the Virtual Choir Project, 185 singers from 12 different countries.	我们在You tube上发布了这个， 网络虚拟合唱项目（Virtual Choir Project)， 来自12国家的185为歌手同"台"献艺，
You can see my little video there conducting these people, alone in their dorm rooms or in their living rooms at home.	你可以看到我在小视频里指挥这些歌手， 歌手们有的在自己的宿舍里， 有的在家里的客厅献唱。
Two years ago, on this very stage, we premiered Virtual Choir 2, 2,052 singers from 58 different countries, this time performing a piece that I had written called "Sleep."	两年前，同样在这个平台上， 虚拟合唱团二举行首演， 来自58个国家的2052位歌手参与其中， 这次演唱的曲目是我写的《睡眠》。
And then just last spring we released Virtual Choir 3, "Water Night," another piece that I had written, this time nearly 4,000 singers from 73 different countries.	就在今年春天，我们发布了虚拟合唱团三， 《水夜》，我写的另一首曲子， 这次，来自73个国家的近4000名歌手献唱。
And when I was speaking to Chris about the future of Virtual Choir and where we might be able to take this, he challenged me to push the technology as far as we possibly could.	我和克里斯谈到虚拟合唱团未来的时候， 谈到我们的发展方向的时候， 他鼓励我把技术的运用推向极致，
Could we do this all in real time?	我们能进行实时表演吗？
Could we have people singing together in real time?	我们的歌手能进行实时演唱吗？
And with the help of Skype, that is what we are going to attempt today.	借助Skype软件， 今天，我们就将尝试这一伟大创举。
Now, we'll perform "Cloudburst" for you.	下面，我们将为各位献上《暴雨》。
The first half will be performed by the live singers here on stage.	曲子的前半部分由台上的歌手们现场演唱，
I'm joined by singers from Cal State Long Beach, Cal State Fullerton and Riverside Community College, some of the best amateur choirs in the country, and — -- and in the second half of the piece, the virtual choir will join us, 30 different singers from 30 different countries.	他们是来自加州州立大学长滩分校的歌手， 来自加州州立大学富尔顿分校以及来自里弗赛德社区学院的 合唱团——他们是美国最优秀的业余合唱团， 曲子的后半部分， 虚拟合唱团将加入我们，他们是来自30个国家的 30名歌手。
Now, we've pushed the technology as far as it can go, but there's still less than a second of latency, but in musical terms, that's a lifetime.	现在，我们已经把技术的运用推向了极致， 但是仍然有不到一秒的延迟， 在音乐里，这是不允许的。
We deal in milliseconds.	我们要求同步到毫秒。
So what I've done is, I've adapted "Cloudburst" so that it embraces the latency and the performers sing into the latency instead of trying to be exactly together.	所以，我把《暴雨》作了调整。 这样，曲子本身预留出延迟的时间 表演者就能在延迟的时间内开口歌唱 而不是全部同步。
So with deep humility, and for your approval, we present "Cloudburst."	下面，满怀谦卑与感激， 让我们带来《暴雨》。
[The rain ...] [Eyes of shadow-water] [eyes of well-water] [eyes of dream-water.] [Blue suns, green whirlwinds,] [birdbeaks of light pecking open] [pomegranate stars.] [But tell me, burnt earth, is there no water?] [Only blood, only dust,] [only naked footsteps on the thorns?] [The rain awakens...] [We must sleep with open eyes,] [we must dream with our hands,] [we must dream the dreams of a river seeking its course,] [of the sun dreaming its worlds.] [We must dream aloud,] [we must sing till the song puts forth roots,] [trunk, branches, birds, stars.] [We must find the lost word,] [and remember what the blood,] [the tides, the earth, and the body say,] [and return to the point of departure...] ["Cloudburst" Octavio Paz][translation by Lysander Kemp, adapted by Eric Whitacre] Eric Whitacre: Beth. Annabelle, where are you? Jacob.	【雨……】 【影水之眼】 【井水之眼】 【梦水之眼。】 【蓝色的太阳，绿色的旋风，】 【鸟喙轻轻地叩开】 【石榴星辰。】 【但是，告诉我，烧焦的地球啊，难道没有水吗？】 【只有鲜血，只有尘土，】 【只有荆棘上赤裸的脚印？】 【雨醒了……】 【我们必须睁着眼睡去，】 【我们必须用双手追梦，】 【我们必须梦着河流的梦，追寻前行的路，】 【我们必须梦着太阳的梦，梦想着她的世界。】 【我们必须高声地梦想，】 【我们必须歌唱，直到歌曲生出根、】 【干、枝、鸟、星。】 【我们必须找回遗失的字眼，】 【并且记住鲜血、】 【浪潮、地球和尸体的话语，】 【我们必须回到分离的原点……】 【《暴雨》奥克塔维奥·帕斯】【英译：莱赛德·肯普，改编：埃里克·惠特克】 埃里克·惠特克：贝斯，安娜贝勒，你们在哪儿？雅各布。
Thank you.	谢谢。
Hi. I'm here to talk to you about the importance of praise, admiration and thank you, and having it be specific and genuine.	嗨。我在这里要和大家谈谈 向别人表达赞美，倾佩和谢意的重要性。 并使它们听来真诚，具体。
And the way I got interested in this was, I noticed in myself, when I was growing up, and until about a few years ago, that I would want to say thank you to someone, I would want to praise them, I would want to take in their praise of me and I'd just stop it.	之所以我对此感兴趣 是因为我从我自己的成长中注意到 几年前， 当我想要对某个人说声谢谢时， 当我想要赞美他们时， 当我想接受他们对我的赞扬， 但我却没有说出口。
And I asked myself, why?	我问我自己，这是为什么？
I felt shy, I felt embarrassed.	我感到害羞，我感到尴尬。
And then my question became, am I the only one who does this?	接着我产生了一个问题 难道我是唯一一个这么做的人吗？
So, I decided to investigate.	所以我决定做些探究。
I'm fortunate enough to work in the rehab facility, so I get to see people who are facing life and death with addiction.	我非常幸运的在一家康复中心工作， 所以我可以看到那些因为上瘾而面临生与死的人。
And sometimes it comes down to something as simple as, their core wound is their father died without ever saying he's proud of them.	有时候这一切可以非常简单地归结为， 他们最核心的创伤来自于他们父亲到死都未说过"他为他们而自豪"。
But then, they hear from all the family and friends that the father told everybody else that he was proud of him, but he never told the son.	但他们从所有其它家庭或朋友那里得知 他的父亲告诉其他人为他感到自豪， 但这个父亲从没告诉过他儿子。
It's because he didn't know that his son needed to hear it.	因为他不知道他的儿子需要听到这一切。
So my question is, why don't we ask for the things that we need?	因此我的问题是，为什么我们不索求我们需要的东西呢？
I know a gentleman, married for 25 years, who's longing to hear his wife say, "Thank you for being the breadwinner, so I can stay home with the kids," but won't ask.	我认识一个结婚25年的男士 渴望听到他妻子说， "感谢你为这个家在外赚钱，这样我才能在家陪伴着孩子，" 但他从来不去问。
I know a woman who's good at this.	我认识一个精于此道的女士。
She, once a week, meets with her husband and says, "I'd really like you to thank me for all these things I did in the house and with the kids."	每周一次，她见到丈夫后会说， "我真的希望你为我对这个家和孩子们付出的努力而感谢我。"
And he goes, "Oh, this is great, this is great."	他会应和到"哦，真是太棒了，真是太棒了。"
And praise really does have to be genuine, but she takes responsibility for that.	赞扬别人一定要真诚， 但她对赞美承担了责任。
And a friend of mine, April, who I've had since kindergarten, she thanks her children for doing their chores.	一个从我上幼儿园就一直是朋友的叫April的人， 她会感谢她的孩子们做了家务。
And she said, "Why wouldn't I thank it, even though they're supposed to do it?"	她说："为什么我不表示感谢呢，即使他们本来就要做那些事情？"
So, the question is, why was I blocking it?	因次我的问题是，为什么我不说呢？
Why were other people blocking it?	为什么其它人不说呢？
Why can I say, "I'll take my steak medium rare, I need size six shoes," but I won't say, "Would you praise me this way?"	为什么我能说："我要一块中等厚度的牛排， 我需要6号尺寸的鞋子，" 但我却不能说："你可以赞扬我吗？"
And it's because I'm giving you critical data about me.	因为这会使我把我的重要信息与你分享。
I'm telling you where I'm insecure.	会让我告诉了你我内心的不安。
I'm telling you where I need your help.	会让你认为我需要你的帮助。
And I'm treating you, my inner circle, like you're the enemy.	虽然你是我最贴心的人， 我却把你当作是敌人。
Because what can you do with that data?	你会用我托付给你的重要信息做些什么呢？
You could neglect me.	你可以忽视我。
You could abuse it.	你可以滥用它。
Or you could actually meet my need.	或者你可以满足我的要求。
And I took my bike into the bike store-- I love this -- same bike, and they'd do something called "truing" the wheels.	我把我的自行车拿到车行－－我喜欢这么做－－ 同样的自行车，他们会对车轮做整形。
The guy said, "You know, when you true the wheels, it's going to make the bike so much better."	那里的人说："当你对车轮做整形时， 它会使自行车变成更好。"
I get the same bike back, and they've taken all the little warps out of those same wheels I've had for two and a half years, and my bike is like new.	我把这辆自行车拿回来， 他们把有小小弯曲的铁丝从轮子上拿走 这辆车我用了2年半，现在还像新的一样。
So, I'm going to challenge all of you.	所以我要问在场的所有人，
I want you to true your wheels: be honest about the praise that you need to hear.	我希望你们把你们的车轮整形一下： 真诚面对对你们想听到的赞美。
What do you need to hear? Go home to your wife -- go ask her, what does she need?	你们想听到什么呢？ 回家问问你们的妻子，她想听到什么？
Go home to your husband -- what does he need?	回家问问你们的丈夫，他想听到什么？
Go home and ask those questions, and then help the people around you.	回家问问这些问题，并帮助身边的人实现它们。
And it's simple.	非常简单。
And why should we care about this?	为什么要关心这个呢？
We talk about world peace.	我们谈论世界和平。
How can we have world peace with different cultures, different languages?	我们怎么用不同的文化，不同的语言来保持世界和平？
I think it starts household by household, under the same roof.	我想要从每个小家庭开始。
So, let's make it right in our own backyard.	所以让我们在家里就把这件事情做好。
And I want to thank all of you in the audience for being great husbands, great mothers, friends, daughters, sons.	我想要感谢所有在这里的人们 因为你们是好丈夫，好母亲， 好伙伴，好女儿和好儿子。
And maybe somebody's never said that to you, but you've done a really, really good job.	或许有些人从没跟你们说过 但你们已经做得非常非常得出色了。
And thank you for being here, just showing up and changing the world with your ideas.	感谢你们来到这里， 向世界显示着你们的智慧，并用它们改变着世界。
Thank you.	谢谢。
	（鼓掌）
It's a great honor today to share with you The Digital Universe, which was created for humanity to really see where we are in the universe.	今天很荣幸 与大家分享 数字宇宙。 它是为了让人类 能真正看到我们在宇宙 的何处。
And so I think we can roll the video that we have.	我想我们可以开始播放了。
[The Himalayas.] The flat horizon that we've evolved with has been a metaphor for the infinite: unbounded resources and unlimited capacity for disposal of waste.	【喜马拉雅山】 Carter Emmart（卡特·艾玛特）：我们看到水平地平线 象征着 无穷无尽的资源 和无限的能力， 由我们充分使用的未利用的资源。
It wasn't until we really left Earth, got above the atmosphere and had seen the horizon bend back on itself, that we could understand our planet as a limited condition.	直到我们真的 离开了地球， 来到大气层之上 看到地平线 向后弯曲， 我们才明白我们的地球 处于一种极限状态。
The Digital Universe Atlas has been built at the American Museum of Natural History over the past 12 years.	数字宇宙的地图集 已经被制作， 在过去的12年里 并放在美国自然历史博物馆。
We maintain that, put that together as a project to really chart the universe across all scales.	我们保持了这个地图集， 并建立一个项目 将地图集合在一起， 从各个不同的范围 真正意义上地绘制宇宙。
What we see here are satellites around the Earth and the Earth in proper registration against the universe, as we see.	我们在这里看到的是围绕地球的卫星， 以及地球在宇宙中 的固定位置，正如我们所看到的。
NASA supported this work 12 years ago as part of the rebuilding of the Hayden Planetarium so that we would share this with the world.	美国国家航空和宇宙航行局，12年前 将此工作 作为重建 Hayden Planetarium的部分， 让我们能与世界分享。
The Digital Universe is the basis of our space show productions that we do -- our main space shows in the dome.	以数字宇宙作为空间的 基础，来展示我们的产品 -- 我们主要的空间展示在这个穹顶内。
But what you see here is the result of, actually, internships that we hosted with Linkoping University in Sweden.	但你们在这里看到的 成果出自于现在的实习项目， 是我们与Linkoping大学在瑞典 共同主办的。
I've had 12 students work on this for their graduate work, and the result has been this software called Uniview and a company called SCISS in Sweden.	我们有12个学生为此项目工作， 作为他们的毕业项目。 而最后的成果是这个叫做Uniview的软件 和在一个叫SCISS的瑞典公司。
This software allows interactive use, so this actual flight path and movie that we see here was actually flown live.	这个软件 允许交互式的使用。 所以这个真实的飞行轨迹 和我们这里看到的影片 实际上是飞行的实况。
I captured this live from my laptop in a cafe called Earth Matters on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, where I live, and it was done as a collaborative project with the Rubin Museum of Himalayan Art for an exhibit on comparative cosmology.	我在我的笔记本电脑上捕捉到了这个实况， 在一个叫做Earth Matters的咖啡馆里， 在曼哈顿的下东部，也就是我生活的地方。 它作为一个合作项目 被完成了。 是与鲁宾博物馆的喜马拉雅艺术合作 来完成一个展览， 展示比较宇宙学。
And so as we move out, we see continuously from our planet all the way out into the realm of galaxies, as we see here, light-travel time, giving you a sense of how far away we are.	正如我们逐渐迁出， 我们从我们的行星逐渐看到 并一直延伸到我们这里所看到的真正的星系， 光时旅行，让你感觉到我们所处有多遥远。
As we move out, the light from these distant galaxies have taken so long, we're essentially backing up into the past.	当我们离开， 从那些遥远星系发出的光 用了如此长的时间， 本质上我们正在回到过去。
We back so far up we're finally seeing a containment around us -- the afterglow of the Big Bang.	我们回到非常早以前， 我们最终能看见围绕我们存在的密闭空间 -- 也就是宇宙大爆炸后的余晖。
This is the WMAP microwave background that we see.	这是威尔金森微波各向异性探测器 的微波背景， 正如我们看到的。
We'll fly outside it here, just to see this sort of containment.	我们将飞出此处，来看这一密闭空间。
If we were outside this, it would almost be meaningless, in the sense as before time.	如果我们在此之外， 其实是毫无意义的，因为这意味着在时间之前。
But this our containment of the visible universe.	但是，这就是我们可视宇宙的密闭空间。
We know the universe is bigger than that which we can see.	我们知道宇宙比我们所看见的要大。
Coming back quickly, we see here the radio sphere that we jumped out of in the beginning, but these are positions, the latest positions of exoplanets that we've mapped, and our sun here, obviously, with our own solar system.	快速返回， 我们这里看到的就是最初我们跳离的放射领域。 但这些位置是 我们所绘制的 系外行星的最新位置。 这里我们的太阳显然是在太阳系之内的。
What you're going to see -- we're going to have to jump in here pretty quickly between several orders of magnitude to get down to where we see the solar system -- these are the paths of Voyager 1, Voyager 2, Pioneer 11 and Pioneer 10, the first four spacecraft to have left the solar system.	即将看到的是-你们即将迅速跳进此处， 介乎几个数量级之间， 来回到我们能看到太阳系的地方。 这些轨迹是 旅行者一号，旅行者二号，先驱者11号和先驱者10号， 四个最先离开太阳系的宇宙飞船。
Coming in closer, picking up Earth, orbit of the Moon, and we see the Earth.	离得更近点， 到达地球。 这是月球的轨迹，而现在我们看见的是地球。
This map can be updated, and we can add in new data.	这个地图可以被更新。 而且我们可以置入新的数据。
I know Dr. Carolyn Porco is the camera P.I.	我知道Carolyn Porco博士是摄影私人调查员，
for the Cassini mission.	为Cassini（卡西尼）探测录工作。
But here we see the complex trajectory of the Cassini mission color coded for different mission phases, ingeniously developed so that 45 encounters with the largest moon, Titan, which is larger that the planet Mercury, diverts the orbit into different parts of mission phase.	但是我们这里看到的是来自于卡西尼探测录 复杂的轨道， 以不同的颜色标记不同的飞行阶段， 巧妙的展开。 因此45次与最大的卫星-Titan相遇， 而它比水星还要大， 将轨道划分为飞行阶段的不同部分。
This software allows us to come close and look at parts of this.	这个软件能让我们离得更近 的看到其中的部分。
This software can also be networked between domes.	这个软件能用互联网在宿舍之间连接。
We have a growing user base of this, and we network domes.	而这一软件的用户正在增长。 并且我们还在连接其它的学生宿舍。
And we can network between domes and classrooms.	还可以在宿舍与教室之间联网。
We're actually sharing tours of the universe with the first sub-Saharan planetarium in Ghana as well as new libraries that have been built in the ghettos in Columbia and a high school in Cambodia.	事实上，我们分享的是宇宙的旅行， 先与撒哈拉沙漠以南的地区 的加纳天文馆， 与此同时 与哥伦比亚少数族群区 新建立的图书馆 以及位于柬埔寨 一个高中。
And the Cambodians have actually controlled the Hayden Planetarium from their high school.	柬埔寨已经 能从高中登录海登天文馆。
This is an image from Saturday, photographed by the Aqua satellite, but through the Uniview software.	这是周六拍摄的一张图像， 它由水资源监测太空器拍摄，和用Uniview软件。
So you're seeing the edge of the Earth.	所以你们看见的是地球的边缘。
This is Nepal.	这是尼泊尔。
This is, in fact, right here is the valley of Lhasa, right here in Tibet.	这是，实际上，这里是拉萨的谷地， 就在西藏。
But we can see the haze from fires and so forth in the Ganges valley down below in India.	但是我们可以看到薄雾 来自于恒河谷地的火源等等 向下刮向印度。
This is Nepal and Tibet.	这是尼泊尔和西藏。
And just in closing, I'd just like to say this beautiful world that we live on -- here we see a bit of the snow that some of you may have had to brave in coming out -- so I'd like to just say that what the world needs now is a sense of being able to look at ourselves in this much larger condition now and a much larger sense of what home is.	就到这里。 我想说，在我们所居住的这个美丽的世界 -- 这里我们看见一点雪 而你们中的一些人出来的时候可能就得勇敢点。 我只想说 世界现在需要的 是在某种意义上，能够 在全局下现在审视我们自己 以及广义上了解什么是家。
Because our home is the universe, and we are the universe, essentially.	因为我们的家正是宇宙， 而我们本质上就是宇宙。
We carry that in us.	我们将宇宙带到我们身边。
And to be able to see our context in this larger sense at all scales helps us all, I think, in understanding where we are and who we are in the universe.	然后能够看我们所处何处 从广义上，从各个不同的角度 我想，这帮助我们理解 在宇宙中我们身处何处以及我们是谁
Thank you.	谢谢。
So, why does good sex so often fade, even for couples who continue to love each other as much as ever?	为何性爱的激情那么容易褪色？ 就算是那些爱得如胶似漆的夫妇也无一例外。
And why does good intimacy not guarantee good sex, contrary to popular belief?	为何亲密的爱情也无法维持激情的色彩呢？ 这和我们普遍对性生活与爱情的关系的认知相违背。
Or, the next question would be, can we want what we already have?	或者说，换第二个问题: 我们能留住我们现有的性生活频率吗？
That's the million-dollar question, right?	这可是个很值得研究的问题，对吧?
And why is the forbidden so erotic?	再者，为什么偷腥会令人如此激情彭拜?
What is it about transgression that makes desire so potent?	又是什么东西令人在偷尝云雨之情时有如此旺盛的性欲呢？
And why does sex make babies, and babies spell erotic disaster in couples?	又是为何性爱孕育了儿女 而儿女却最终反过来却成为夫妻性爱的灾难呢？
It's kind of the fatal erotic blow, isn't it?	这对于性欲可是种致命的打击，不是么？
And when you love, how does it feel?	还有，当你爱时，你有什么感受?
And when you desire, how is it different?	并且当你产生欲望时，这种感受又会有什么不同的变化?
These are some of the questions that are at the center of my exploration on the nature of erotic desire and its concomitant dilemmas in modern love.	这些都是 我今天想要探讨的问题 -----探索现代爱情中人类的原始性冲动 和其伴随而来的困境
So I travel the globe, and what I'm noticing is that everywhere where romanticism has entered, there seems to be a crisis of desire.	为了这一研究，我去了很多国家 而我注意到 凡是浪漫的国度 都面临着性欲消退的危机。
A crisis of desire, as in owning the wanting -- desire as an expression of our individuality, of our free choice, of our preferences, of our identity -- desire that has become a central concept as part of modern love and individualistic societies.	欲望消退危机----正如我们的需要一样, 性欲作为我们对自身个体的表达： 是对于我们的自由选择、偏好和身份的一种需要 性欲已经成为 现代爱情和崇尚个人主义的社会的核心概念
You know, this is the first time in the history of humankind where we are trying to experience sexuality in the long term, not because we want 14 children, for which we need to have even more because many of them won't make it, and not because it is exclusively a woman's marital duty.	要知道，这是人类历史上首次 我们长期体验性爱 不是为了生一大堆孩子,比如说14个。 -----或许我们部分人可能要生养育更多，以防很多可能会夭折， 也不是源于女人生儿育女的天职。
This is the first time that we want sex over time about pleasure and connection that is rooted in desire.	人类第一次将我需要性的观点超越了仅仅是体内的性欲在作怪 是因为性爱能给人们带来愉悦和稳定的关系。
So what sustains desire, and why is it so difficult?	那么,究竟是什么在维持着人的性欲?而维持性欲为何又这么难呢？
And at the heart of sustaining desire in a committed relationship, I think is the reconciliation of two fundamental human needs.	要维持夫妻关系中的性欲的关键 我认为在于协调两种人类的基本需求。
On the one hand, our need for security, for predictability, for safety, for dependability, for reliability, for permanence -- all these anchoring, grounding experiences of our lives that we call home.	一方面，是我们对安全、可预测性、 安全感、可靠性、可依赖感和对永恒的需要。 所有这些生活中能为我们提供所需的厚实而安稳的体验的地方 就是我们所说的"家"。
But we also have an equally strong need -- men and women -- for adventure, for novelty, for mystery, for risk, for danger, for the unknown, for the unexpected, surprise -- you get the gist -- for journey, for travel.	但同时, 无论男女, 我们,还有另一种强烈的需要 ---那就是对冒险，对新奇事物，神秘、危险、风险 以及对未知有的、预料之外和惊喜的渴望。 我的意思是我们喜欢出游，旅行
So reconciling our need for security and our need for adventure into one relationship, or what we today like to call a passionate marriage, used to be a contradiction in terms.	这就意味着在一段关系中，要协调我们对安稳感的需求 和对猎奇的需要， 我们今天称之为 "有激情的婚姻" 过去曾是相互矛盾的的两个方面
Marriage was an economic institution in which you were given a partnership for life in terms of children and social status and succession and companionship.	婚姻曾经是一种经济制度 你可以从中获得某种合作关系, 它一般以孩子，社会地位 继承权以及同伴的形式出现。
But now we want our partner to still give us all these things, but in addition I want you to be my best friend and my trusted confidant and my passionate lover to boot, and we live twice as long.	可如今，我们在希望我们的伴侣可以继续提供这些的同时 又要求他们成为我们的知己 做我们可交心的伴侣和激情四射的情人 甚至还想长生不老呢
So we come to one person, and we basically are asking them to give us what once an entire village used to provide: Give me belonging, give me identity, give me continuity, but give me transcendence and mystery and awe all in one.	所以,当我碰到我们的另一半时，我们简直在向对方要求 给我们这些过去原本一整个村庄才能提供的东西： 如财产，名份，至死不渝的忠贞爱情, 同时你还得让我觉得你是卓尔不群，有神秘感和有敬畏心。
Give me comfort, give me edge.	安抚我的同时带给我刺激。
Give me novelty, give me familiarity.	给我新鲜感的同时又要保持亲密。
Give me predictability, give me surprise.	让我过安稳的日子的同时还要能给我惊喜。
And we think it's a given, and toys and lingerie are going to save us with that.	多数人认为这是奉献，性玩具和性感睡衣就能解决这些问题。
So now we get to the existential reality of the story, right?	现在我们应该说清楚性爱激情的现实部分了,对吧?
Because I think, in some way -- and I'll come back to that -- but the crisis of desire is often a crisis of the imagination.	我觉得，从某种角度讲-- 一会我们再会回到这个话题 其实欲望危机就是想象力的危机。
So why does good sex so often fade?	那么为什么美妙的性爱体验容易消散呢？
What is the relationship between love and desire?	爱和欲之间的联系到底是什么呢？
How do they relate, and how do they conflict?	它们是怎样联系起来的，又是怎么相互冲突的呢？
Because therein lies the mystery of eroticism.	横亘在这两者之间的是性欲的奥秘。
So if there is a verb, for me, that comes with love, it's "to have."	如果要我用一个动词来描述爱，那就是"拥有"
And if there is a verb that comes with desire, it is "to want."	而对于性欲,我想用"索求"来描述最恰当不过了。
In love, we want to have, we want to know the beloved.	在爱情中，我们想要拥有，我们想要了解我们的爱人
We want to minimize the distance. We want to contract that gap.	我们想腻在一起，想跨越阻碍
We want to neutralize the tensions. We want closeness.	我们想调和不安的情绪，我们想亲密无间。
But in desire, we tend to not really want to go back to the places we've already gone.	而在性欲方面，我们不想回到我们已经经历过的地方。
Forgone conclusion does not keep our interest.	过时的结论提不起我们的兴趣。
In desire, we want an Other, somebody on the other side that we can go visit, that we can go spend some time with, that we can go see what goes on in their red light district.	在性欲方面，我们想找的是我们的另一半，一个在彼岸,一个我们想去探索的另一半。 一个我们想呆在一起的另一半 和一个我们能探索其瘾秘的内心世界的另一半
In desire, we want a bridge to cross.	在性欲中，我们想找的是一座沟通的桥梁。
Or in other words, I sometimes say, fire needs air.	换言之，"一个巴掌拍不响啊"
Desire needs space.	性欲也需要空间。
And when it's said like that, it's often quite abstract.	这样说或许有点抽象吧。
But then I took a question with me.	带着一个问题
And I've gone to more than 20 countries in the last few years with "Mating in Captivity," and I asked people, when do you find yourself most drawn to your partner?	几年间我带着"Mating in Captivity" 这本书走访了20多个国家 每到一处，我都会问人们: "你什么时候最喜欢和爱人呆在一起？"
Not attracted sexually, per se, but most drawn.	我说的是呆在一起而不是一起性爱
And across culture, across religion, and across gender -- except for one -- there are a few answers that just keep coming back.	来自不同文化、不同地区、不同性别的人 除一个有点例外，其它人给我的回答不外如是
So the first group is: I am most drawn to my partner when she is away, when we are apart, when we reunite.	第一组：最想和爱人在一起的时候 是爱人不在身边的时候、是分开的时候或是小别重逢时。
Basically, when I get back in touch with my ability to imagine myself with my partner, when my imagination comes back in the picture, and when I can root it in absence and in longing, which is a major component of desire.	也就是，当我能用我的想象力 想像我和爱人在一起的时候， 当我的想像力能回到这方面来的时候， 当爱人不在而我又想要的时候 这就是性欲的主要组成部分
But then the second group is even more interesting: I am most drawn to my partner when I see him in the studio, when she is onstage, when he is in his element, when she's doing something she's passionate about, when I see him at a party and other people are really drawn to him, when I see her hold court.	然而，另一组回答更有趣。 我最想和爱人在一起的时候 是当我看到他在录影棚工作、在舞台上表演的时候、 当他在做正经事的时候、当他在做她感兴趣的事情的时候， 当我看到他在party上谜倒一大堆人的时候 当她开庭的时候。
Basically, when I look at my partner radiant and confident, probably the biggest turn-on across the board.	一般而言，当我看到我的爱人光芒四射而又自信的时候 这就是最大的刺激物了。
Radiant, as in self-sustaining.	光芒四射，在自我维系中也如此。
I look at this person -- by the way, in desire people rarely talk about it, when we are blended into one, five centimeters from each other. I don't know in inches how much that is.	在欲望中， 我看这个人 人们很少谈论这些, 当我们粘在一起的时候 也就是相隔5厘米左右的时候---说实在的我不知道是几厘米
But it's also not when the other person is that far apart that you no longer see them.	但是,这种分别并不是说相隔太远 以至于以后都不能相见。
It's when I'm looking at my partner from a comfortable distance, where this person that is already so familiar, so known, is momentarily once again somewhat mysterious, somewhat elusive.	而是我能在一个比较合适的距离看着我爱的人 那个我熟悉和相知的， 还带有点神秘,有点难以捉摸的人。
And in this space between me and the other lies the erotic élan, lies that movement toward the other.	我和爱人之间的距离成了一条性欲的纽带 也造成了我们的相互走动
Because sometimes, as Proust says, mystery is not about traveling to new places, but it's about looking with new eyes.	因为有时候，正如Proust说的那样 发现奥秘不一定要到一个新的地方去， 而只要我们有新视角就行。
And so, when I see my partner on his own or her own, doing something in which they are enveloped, I look at this person and I momentarily get a shift in perception, and I stay open to the mysteries that are living right next to me.	所以，当我们看到我们的另一半独自 在忙自己的事的时候。 看着他我会对他有一种新的了解和认识， 而我对我身过的一些奥秘是常怀着关注之情的。
And then, more importantly, in this description about the other or myself -- it's the same -- what is most interesting is that there is no neediness in desire.	更重要的是，对别人的了解 或者对自己的了解, 都一样. 最有趣的是，这不需要性欲。
Nobody needs anybody.	没有谁需要谁。
There is no caretaking in desire.	性欲不存在谁照顾谁的问题。
Caretaking is mightily loving. It's a powerful anti-aphrodisiac.	照顾是一种了不起的大爱，是一种强大的崔情药
I have yet to see somebody who is so turned on by somebody who needs them.	我还看到一些人的性欲 是被那些需要他们的人唤起的
Wanting them is one thing. Needing them is a shutdown, and women have known that forever, because anything that will bring up parenthood will usually decrease the erotic charge.	想要是一回事，但需要会令人性趣索然 这点女人最清楚了， 因为任何母性有关的东西 都会降低性欲。
For good reasons, right?	很有道理，是不是?
And then the third group of answers usually would be when I'm surprised, when we laugh together, as somebody said to me in the office today, when he's in his tux, so I said, you know, it's either the tux or the cowboy boots.	第三类回答是: 当我感到惊喜时，当我们一起大笑时会性趣大发， 比如说，今天有人在我的办公室告诉我， 当他穿着无尾半正式晚礼服时最有感觉了 其实性欲与晚礼服或牛仔靴无关
But basically it's when there is novelty.	而是与猎奇有关。
But novelty isn't about new positions. It isn't a repertoire of techniques.	但新奇并不只意味着新的体位，也不是五花八门的性爱技巧
Novelty is, what parts of you do you bring out?	新奇是,你将自已的哪一面展现出来？
What parts of you are just being seen?	你的哪一面你的爱人熟悉？
Because in some way one could say sex isn't something you do, eh?	因为在某种程度上，我们会说 性交并不专指性交活动，对吧?
Sex is a place you go. It's a space you enter inside yourself and with another, or others.	性交过程其实像你在去一个地方 是一个进入自己或对方体内的过程。
So where do you go in sex?	因此，性交时何去何从？
What parts of you do you connect to?	你们身体的哪一部分有接触?
What do you seek to express there?	你们想在那里表达些什么？
Is it a place for transcendence and spiritual union?	那是一个表现性爱技巧和精神合一的地方吗？
Is it a place for naughtiness and is it a place to be safely aggressive?	那是一个俏皮掏蛋的地方呢还是一个略带点侵略性质的地方呢？
Is it a place where you can finally surrender and not have to take responsibility for everything?	还是一个你最后放弃 不想负责任的地方呢?
Is it a place where you can express your infantile wishes?	它是不是一个你可以表达你孩子气的地方呢？
What comes out there? It's a language.	性爱到底是什么？ 其实性交是一种语言。
It isn't just a behavior.	不是一种行为。
And it's the poetic of that language that I'm interested in, which is why I began to explore this concept of erotic intelligence.	而我，正是对这一充满诗意的性交语言感兴趣 这就是为什么我要探讨"性商"这一概念。
You know, animals have sex.	要知道，动物也性交。
It's the pivot, it's biology, it's the natural instinct.	而动物的性交是传宗接代的，是生物的，是一种自然的天性。
We are the only ones who have an erotic life, which means that it's sexuality transformed by the human imagination.	人类是唯一过性生活的物种， 所谓性生活完全是人类想象出来的东西
We are the only ones who can make love for hours, have a blissful time, multiple orgasms, and touch nobody, just because we can imagine it.	人类也是唯一能持续几个小时做爱 有幸福时光，有多次高潮 而没有身体抚摸的动物，因为人类能想象出这些东西。
We can hint at it. We don't even have to do it.	我们可以用意念来交欢，根本就不用直接的身体接触。
We can experience that powerful thing called anticipation, which is a mortar to desire, the ability to imagine it, as if it's happening, to experience it as if it's happening, while nothing is happening and everything is happening at the same time.	我们能体验强大的性期待 那可是性欲的动机， 能想得到的，它就可以是发生的 能体验到好像正在发生的，而实际上却没发生任何事 所有这些都可以同时发生
So when I began to think about eroticism, I began to think about the poetics of sex, and if I look at it as an intelligence, then it's something that you cultivate.	所以，当我想到性兴奋时， 我就会想到性爱的美妙。 而如果我把它看作一种"智商" 那么，它就应该是你应该培养的东西。
What are the ingredients? Imagination, playfulness, novelty, curiosity, mystery.	性商包括什么呢？想象力、情趣、 新鲜感、好奇心和神秘感。
But the central agent is really that piece called the imagination.	但其核心是想象力。
But more importantly, for me to begin to understand who are the couples who have an erotic spark, what sustains desire, I had to go back to the original definition of eroticism, the mystical definition, and I went through it through a bifurcation by looking actually at trauma, which is the other side, and I looked at it looking at the community that I had grown up in, which was a community in Belgium, all Holocaust survivors, and in my community there were two groups: those who didn't die, and those who came back to life.	但更重要的是，如果说我要弄清楚 哪些夫妇有性火花， 什么东西方维系着性爱, 我必须得回顾一下 性爱的最原始的定义, 这一最神秘的定义，我经历过的 以一种分岐，通过创伤来看 这就是另一面，让我来看看 看看我成长的社区 那是一个在比利时的社区，所有人都是大屠杀的幸存者 在这个社区里，有两类人： 一类是没有死过的，另一类是死后重生的
And those who didn't die lived often very tethered to the ground, could not experience pleasure, could not trust, because when you're vigilant, worried, anxious, and insecure, you can't lift your head to go and take off in space and be playful and safe and imaginative.	那些没死过的人一般都很现实 无法体会快感，不信任人 因为他们过于谨慎、杞人忧天、焦虑 没有安全感，不能自信地 在性爱中解放自我，没有情趣，没安全感也缺乏想象力。
Those who came back to life were those who understood the erotic as an antidote to death.	那些劫后余生的人 他们把性事当作忘却死亡的解药。
They knew how to keep themselves alive.	他们知道怎样让自己活下去。
And when I began to listen to the sexlessness of the couples that I work with, I sometimes would hear people say, "I want more sex," but generally people want better sex, and better is to reconnect with that quality of aliveness, of vibrancy, of renewal, of vitality, of eros, of energy that sex used to afford them, or that they've hoped it would afford them.	当我听到我的那些无性生活的同事的故事时 有时我听到别人说：我想要更多的性生活。 但很多时候，人们更在意性生活的质量, 最好的是能过传统意义上性生活能提供给他们的活力、 新鲜感、动感、和充满动力的性爱 或者他们希望 能得到这性爱。
And so I began to ask a different question.	所以，我会问另一个问题：
"I shut myself off when ..." began to be the question.	我何时不会有性欲。
"I turn off my desires when ..." which is not the same question as, "What turns me off is ..." and "You turn me off when ..."	我何时会压制自已的性欲。 是什么令我毫无性欲。你何时令我性欲全无。
And people began to say, "I turn myself off when I feel dead inside, when I don't like my body, when I feel old, when I haven't had time for myself, when I haven't had a chance to even check in with you, when I don't perform well at work, when I feel low self esteem, when I don't have a sense of self-worth, when I don't feel like I have a right to want, to take, to receive pleasure."	人们会回答说：当我心死时、当我不再喜欢我自己的身体时 我对性也就没有任何兴趣了。 当我感觉自己老了，当我没有自己的时间了， 当我没机会和你去开房时， 当我工作毫无业绩可言时， 当我没有了自尊、当我觉得没有了个人价值时， 当我觉得我已经没有权力去想，去获得 和去接受这种快感受时
And then I began to ask the reverse question.	然后，我会反过来问：
"I turn myself on when ..." Because most of the time, people like to ask the question, "You turn me on, what turns me on," and I'm out of the question. You know?	我何时会性趣大发。因为很多时候 人们喜欢问这类问题：你令我兴奋 什么使我兴奋? 我不可能兴奋的，对吧？
Now, if you are dead inside, the other person can do a lot of things for Valentine's.	但如果你已经心死了，你的另一半可以为你们的情人节做很多事啊！
It won't make a dent. There is nobody at the reception desk.	没有人知道的， 前台没有人呢。
So I turn myself on when, I turn my desires, I wake up when ...	所以，我让自己兴奋 我唤醒自己的性欲，我起来时。。。
Now, in this paradox between love and desire, what seems to be so puzzling is that the very ingredients that nurture love -- mutuality, reciprocity, protection, worry, responsibility for the other -- are sometimes the very ingredients that stifle desire.	在爱与欲这对矛盾体里 令人不解的是那些滋润着爱的养分------ 相依相伴、互惠、 爱护有加、担心、和为对方肩负起来的责任 这些东西有时也会抑制性欲。
Because desire comes with a host of feelings that are not always such favorites of love: jealousy, possessiveness, aggression, power, dominance, naughtiness, mischief.	因为，性欲来自于一系列的 并非全是爱的情感： 比如说妒忌、占有欲、冒犯、权力、支配 俏皮、捣蛋等等。
Basically most of us will get turned on at night by the very same things that we will demonstrate against during the day.	一般来说，大多数人晚上都会有性兴奋 其实白天也一样可能会有性兴奋
You know, the erotic mind is not very politically correct.	性想法在政治上不算很合适
If everybody was fantasizing on a bed of roses, we wouldn't be having such interesting talks about this.	如果每个人都能躺在床上想着满床的玖瑰 那我们今天就没有必要来听这个演讲了。
But no, in our mind up there are a host of things going on that we don't always know how to bring to the person that we love, because we think love comes with selflessness and in fact desire comes with a certain amount of selfishness in the best sense of the word: the ability to stay connected to one's self in the presence of another.	但其实并不然，在我们心底的某个角落, 有着一些我们不知道的东西 不知道怎么样将这些东西告诉我们的爱人， 这是因为，我们认为爱是自私的， 而性欲在很大程度上出于我们的自私 如果说非得这么说的话 自私就是和别人在一起的时候 只顾自我的感受。
So I want to draw that little image for you, because this need to reconcile these two sets of needs, we are born with that.	所以，让我稍为概括一下 因为这需要调和一下我们与生俱来的东西 这两种需要。
Our need for connection, our need for separateness, or our need for security and adventure, or our need for togetherness and for autonomy, and if you think about the little kid who sits on your lap and who is cozily nested here and very secure and comfortable, and at some point all of us need to go out into the world to discover and to explore.	也就是联系的需要，分离的需要 或者安全和冒险的需要 团聚的需要、自我管理的需要 如果你想像一下，有个小孩坐在你大腿上 他舒服地坐在那里，既安全又舒适 而在某种程度上，我们每个人都需要走出去 去发现、去探索.
That's the beginning of desire, that exploratory needs curiosity, discovery.	这就是性欲的来源, 探索需要好奇心和发现。
And then at some point they turn around and they look at you, and if you tell them, "Hey kiddo, the world's a great place. Go for it.	然后，在某时，他们会转过身来问看着你， 如果你对他们说： "嘿，老兄，这个世界太美妙了，去享受它吧"
There's so much fun out there," then they can turn away and they can experience connection and separateness at the same time.	那儿有太多乐趣了。 然后他们会去探索，同时去体验 团聚和分离。
They can go off in their imagination, off in their body, off in their playfulness, all the while knowing that there's somebody when they come back.	他们会开动想象力和调动他们的身体 动起嬉闹的念想，想着 回至家时爱人在等待。
But if on this side there is somebody who says, "I'm worried. I'm anxious. I'm depressed.	但也有人会说： 我很担心、我很焦虑、我感到无比压抑
My partner hasn't taken care of me in so long.	我和爱人很久都不理不睬了。
What's so good out there? Don't we have everything you need together, you and I?"	那里有什么好呢？我们两人在一起不就什么都有了吗？ 就你和我？
then there are a few little reactions that all of us can pretty much recognize.	这就会引起一引起小反应 我们很多人都能识别
Some of us will come back, came back a long time ago, and that little child who comes back is the child who will forgo a part of himself in order not to lose the other.	我们有些人会回到从前，很久很久以前 那些想要回到从前的小孩 就是那些想放弃部分自我的小孩 为了不失去对方
I will lose my freedom in order not to lose connection.	要想不失去爱，我就得失去自由
And I will learn to love in a certain way that will become burdened with extra worry and extra responsibility and extra protection, and I won't know how to leave you in order to go play, in order to go experience pleasure, in order to discover, to enter inside myself.	而我又得学会用某种方式去爱 这会导致我们过度担心、 过大的责任和过度的保护而不堪重负 而我又不知道怎么放手 让你去享受、去体验快感， 让你去发现，去进入我的内心世界
Translate this into adult language.	这要用成年人的语言来理解。
It starts very young. It continues into our sex lives up to the end.	性欲从我们很小时候就有，它会陪我们进入我们的性生活期 直至我们老死。
Child number two comes back but looks like that over their shoulder all the time.	第二个孩子回来 但伏在他们的肩上。
"Are you going to be there?	你快到了吗？
Are you going to curse me? Are you going to scold me?	你会诅骂我吗？你会责备我吗？
Are you going to be angry with me?"	你会生我的气吗？
And they may be gone, but they're never really away, and those are often the people that will tell you, in the beginning it was super hot.	这些或许都不见了，但他们永远都不会远离， 这些就是人们常会和你说的 开始时会很狂热。
Because in the beginning, the growing intimacy wasn't yet so strong that it actually led to the decrease of desire.	因为刚开始时，亲密感 还没有这么强烈 而恰恰是亲密会削弱性欲。
The more connected I became, the more responsible I felt, the less I was able to let go in your presence.	联系越紧密，觉得责任越大 越不会放手让你走
The third child doesn't really come back.	第三个孩子不会真正的回来
So what happens, if you want to sustain desire, it's that real dialectic piece.	那会怎样？如果你想保持性欲 这是一种真正的辩证法。
On the one hand you want the security in order to be able to go.	一方面，为了享受性爱，你需要安全感。
On the other hand if you can't go, you can't have pleasure, you can't culminate, you don't have an orgasm, you don't get excited because you spend your time in the body and the head of the other and not in your own.	另一方面，如果你没有性爱，你不会享受到快感， 不会有性亢奋，不会有高潮 你不会兴奋，因为你花太多的时间在别人的身体上 或心理上，而忽略了自己的身体和想法。
So in this dilemma about reconciling these two sets of fundamental needs, there are a few things that I've come to understand erotic couples do.	因此，在妥协的两难中， 这两种基本的需要， 让我解理了性福夫妇的一些做法。
One, they have a lot of sexual privacy.	首先，他们有很多性瘾私。
They understand that there is an erotic space that belongs to each of them.	他们明白各人都应该有 各自的空间。
They also understand that foreplay is not something you do five minutes before the real thing.	他们也清楚前戏并不是 你在性交前5分钟所做的事。
Foreplay pretty much starts at the end of the previous orgasm.	前戏应该从你上一次高潮结束之后就开始了。
They also understand that an erotic space isn't about, you begin to stroke the other.	他们同时也明白，性爱空间并不是 你开始抚摸对方
It's about you create a space where you leave Management Inc., maybe where you leave the agile program, and you actually just enter that place where you stop being the good citizen who is taking care of things and being responsible.	性爱是指你开设一个空间，就象经营一间大公司一样 在那里有你灵活的管理计划。 而你实际上只进入那个地方 然后像个好市民一样停下来 谁来处理这些问题，谁来为这负责任。
Responsibility and desire just butt heads.	责任和性欲俩都只能硬碰硬
They don't really do well together.	他们不会合作。
Erotic couples also understand that passion waxes and wanes.	有性福的夫妇也明白，激情会慢慢退化。
It's pretty much like the moon. It has intermittent eclipses.	性欲这东西就很像月亮一样有阴晴圆缺。
But what they know is they know how to resurrect it.	但是，他们知道怎么恢复它。
They know how to bring it back, and they know how to bring it back because they have demystified one big myth, which is the myth of spontaneity, which is that it's just going to fall from heaven while you're folding the laundry like a deus ex machina, and in fact they understood that whatever is going to just happen in a long-term relationship already has.	他们知道怎么样让它再美满起来。 他们能这样做是 因为他们打破了一个神话 那个自然说的神话， 性欲可能会在你的折叠衣物时突然出现 就像从天而降一样，豪无征兆，而事实上，他们明白 无论发生什么 在一个长期的关系中
Committed sex is premeditated sex.	有承诺的性爱是有预谋的性爱
It's willful. It's intentional.	是自愿的、你情我愿的
It's focus and presence.	是投入的和确实存在的
Merry Valentine's.	情人节快乐
	(掌声）
Trees epitomize stasis.	树象征静止
Trees are rooted in the ground in one place for many human generations, but if we shift our perspective from the trunk to the twigs, trees become very dynamic entities, moving and growing.	于好几个世代中 树都植根于同一地区的同一块土地 但是如果我们将注意力 由树干转移到树枝 树木的活力就显现出来了 它一直在活动及成长
And I decided to explore this movement by turning trees into artists.	因此我决定开始探索树枝 我认为树木是位艺术家
I simply tied the end of a paintbrush onto a twig.	为什么呢 我在细枝的末端绑上一枝画笔
I waited for the wind to come up and held up a canvas, and that produced art.	然后静待风起 撑起画布 一幅艺术品就此完成
The piece of art you see on your left is painted by a western red cedar and that on your right by a Douglas fir, and what I learned was that different species have different signatures, like a Picasso versus a Monet.	你现在看到在左边那幅图 就是由北美香柏所画的 右边那幅则是花旗松的作品 我发现不同的树种 所留下的图型特征不同 就像毕加索和莫奈的画风不同一样
But I was also interested in the movement of trees and how this art might let me capture that and quantify it, so to measure the distance that a single vine maple tree -- which produced this painting -- moved in a single year, I simply measured and summed each of those lines.	我不仅对树木的活力感兴趣 还对将图上的活动轨迹量化也很有兴趣 为测量创作这幅画的藤枫 一年内所移动的距离 我测量这图上每条线的长度 而后加总
I multiplied them by the number of twigs per branch and the number of branches per tree and then divided that by the number of minutes per year.	然后乘上每个树枝上细枝数目 及每棵树有多少树枝数目 再乘以每年的分钟数
And so I was able to calculate how far a single tree moved in a single year.	这样我就可以算出 每一株树每年的移动距离
You might have a guess.	你可以猜猜看
The answer is actually 186,540 miles, or seven times around the globe.	答案是186,540英里 也就是绕着地球转七圈的长度。
And so simply by shifting our perspective from a single trunk to the many dynamic twigs, we are able to see that trees are not simply static entities, but rather extremely dynamic.	所以只要将观注的重点由一株树干 转移至许多动态的细枝 我们就可以看出树木不只是静止的 它的动作可还大着呢
And I began to think about ways that we might consider this lesson of trees, to consider other entities that are also static and stuck, but which cry for change and dynamicism, and one of those entities is our prisons.	接着我想到由 树木移动所学到的启示 是不是可以应用在其它呼喊着要改变 要自由的 静态或被限制行动的事物上呢 监狱就是一例
Prisons, of course, are where people who break our laws are stuck, confined behind bars.	监狱当然是为要将作奸犯科者 困于牢栏之后
And our prison system itself is stuck.	但是我们的监狱体系却自困一角
The United States has over 2.3 million incarcerated men and women.	美国有二百三十万位 被监禁的男女囚犯
That number is rising.	而且数目还在持续上升
Of the 100 incarcerated people that are released, 60 will return to prison.	在一百个出狱的囚犯里 有六十个会再回笼
Funds for education, for training and for rehabilitation are declining, so this despairing cycle of incarceration continues.	但是用在教育训练 辅导罪犯改过迁善的经费却一直在减少 所以整个监禁体系是在令人绝望的循环中不断重复
I decided to ask whether the lesson I had learned from trees as artists could be applied to a static institution such as our prisons, and I think the answer is yes.	我决定去探究是否可以将 把树当作艺术家的经验 运用在像监狱这样静态 停滞不前的机构上 我发现答案是可行的
In the year 2007, I started a partnership with the Washington State Department of Corrections.	在2007年 我开始和 华盛顿州的囚犯矫正部门合作
Working with four prisons, we began bringing science and scientists, sustainability and conservation projects to four state prisons.	选定四个监狱 引进科学实验及科学家 在这四个州立监狱里 进行永续发展 我们给这四个监狱的囚犯
We give science lectures, and the men here are choosing to come to our science lectures instead of watching television or weightlifting.	上科学课程 这些人选择来上我们提供的科学课程 而不是去看电视或举重
That, I think, is movement.	我认为这才是行动
We partnered with the Nature Conservancy for inmates at Stafford Creek Correctional Center to grow endangered prairie plants for restoration of relic prairie areas in Washington state.	我们和自然保育局合作 请史塔佛溪矫正中心的囚犯 种植濒临绝种的草原植物 用来重建华盛顿州的荒废草原
That, I think, is movement.	这就是我认为的改变
We worked with the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife to grow endangered frogs -- the Oregon spotted frog -- for later release into protected wetlands.	我们也和华盛顿州的鱼类及野生动物部门 合作养殖滨临绝种的奥勒岗州斑蛙 然后放回湿地保护区
That, I think, is movement.	这就是我认为的改变
And just recently, we've begun to work with those men who are segregated in what we call Supermax facilities.	最近我们开始和 被隔离在戒备最森严的 牢房里的重刑犯合作
They've incurred violent infractions by becoming violent with guards and with other prisoners.	他们都曾经与警卫 或是其他囚犯 有过暴力冲突
They're kept in bare cells like this for 23 hours a day.	他们每天都被关在像这样的 囚室里 23个小时
When they have meetings with their review boards or mental health professionals, they're placed in immobile booths like this.	当他们与审查委员或心理专家会面时 他们是被安置在这样一个固定的隔离房间里
For one hour a day they're brought to these bleak and bland exercise yards.	他们每天仅有一小时的时间 可以在这个单调乏味的运动场放风
Although we can't bring trees and prairie plants and frogs into these environments, we are bringing images of nature into these exercise yards, putting them on the walls, so at least they get contact with visual images of nature.	虽然我们不被允许将树草原植物 或是蛙类带入这样的环境 但是我们选择将自然的影像 带入运动场 挂在墙壁上，这样至少他们在视觉上 在视觉上还可以与自然接触
This is Mr. Lopez, who has been in solitary confinement for 18 months, and he's providing input on the types of images that he believes would make him and his fellow inmates more serene, more calm, less apt to violence.	这位是已经被单独监禁了18个月的Lopez先生 他对这样的图片提供意见表示 他相信这会使他以及其他囚犯 有较安详镇定的感觉 不易诉之暴力
And so what we see, I think, is that small, collective movements of change can perhaps move an entity such as our own prison system in a direction of hope.	由前述 我们看到 一个微小但是集体性的行动改变 或许可以推动 像监狱体系这样的个体 往看得见希望的方向前进
We know that trees are static entities when we look at their trunks.	我们知道光只看树干的话 树是静止的
But if trees can create art, if they can encircle the globe seven times in one year, if prisoners can grow plants and raise frogs, then perhaps there are other static entities that we hold inside ourselves, like grief, like addictions, like racism, that can also change.	如果让树自由创作 如果树一年能够绕地球七次 如果囚犯都可以种植植物 养殖蛙类 那么也许深藏在我们心中 那些顽固的想法 如哀伤 沉溺 种族偏见等等 皆可改变
Thank you very much.	谢谢大家
Robbie Mizzone: Thank you.	(音乐） 罗比·米宗:谢谢
Tommy Mizzone: Thank you very much.	唐美·米宗:非常感谢
We're so excited to be here. It's such an honor for us.	能来到这里我们非常激动。这是我们的荣幸。
Like he said, we're three brothers from New Jersey -- you know, the bluegrass capital of the world.	就像他说的，我们是来自新泽西的三兄弟 你知道的，新泽西是世界蓝草音乐之都
We discovered bluegrass a few years ago, and we fell in love with it. We hope you guys will too.	几年前蓝草音乐走进我们的生活 然后我们爱上了它。我们希望你们也能喜欢蓝草音乐
This next song is an original we wrote called "Timelapse," and it will probably live up to its name.	接下来是我们的一首原创歌曲"时间推移" 估计这个名字还是挺贴切的
TM: Thank you very much.	TM：非常感谢
RM: I'm just going to take a second to introduce the band.	RM：我将简单低介绍下我们的乐队
On guitar is my 15-year-old brother Tommy.	我15岁的哥哥汤米是吉他手
On banjo is 10-year-old Jonny.	10岁的乔尼是五弦琴手
He's also our brother.	他是我们的小弟弟
And I'm Robbie, and I'm 14, and I play the fiddle.	我是罗比，今年14岁，小提琴手
As you can see, we decided to make it hard on ourselves, and we chose to play three songs in three different keys.	正如各位所见，我们想让表演变得有挑战性 所以我们会用3种不同的调子 来演奏三首曲子
Yeah. I'm also going to explain, a lot of people want to know where we got the name Sleepy Man Banjo Boys from.	我同时要解释一下，有很多朋友想要知道 我们的乐队名"瞌睡人／五弦琴男孩"的由来
So it started when Jonny was little, and he first started the banjo, he would play on his back with his eyes closed, and we'd say it looked like he was sleeping.	在乔尼还小的时候 当他最初开始弹五弦琴的时候，他总是闭着眼 将琴放在背后弹奏 然后我们就说他好像睡着了一样
So you can probably piece the rest together.	接下来的故事各位就自行想象吧
TM: We can't really figure out the reason for this.	TM：其实我们也不知道乔尼为什么那样弹琴
It might have been that it weighs about a million pounds.	搞得就像那琴有一百万磅重一样
TM: Thank you very much.	TM：非常感谢
RM: Thank you.	RM：谢谢
As an architect, I often ask myself, what is the origin of the forms that we design?	作为一个建筑师，我经常扣心自问， 我们设计出来的造型的来源是什么？
What kind of forms could we design if we wouldn't work with references anymore?	如果不去参考别人的作品 那么我们会设计出怎样的造型呢？
If we had no bias, if we had no preconceptions, what kind of forms could we design if we could free ourselves from our experience?	如果我们没有偏好，没有先入之见， 我们又会设计出怎样的造型呢？ 如果我们将自己从 积累的经验中解锢出来呢？
If we could free ourselves from our education?	如果我们能挣脱教育的束缚呢？
What would these unseen forms look like?	这些前所未有的造型会是什么样子的？
Would they surprise us? Would they intrigue us?	会让我们眼前一亮吗？会激起我们的兴趣吗？
Would they delight us?	会让我们感到愉悦吗？
If so, then how can we go about creating something that is truly new?	如果是这样的话，我们要怎样去创造真正新颖的东西呢？
I propose we look to nature.	我建议在大自然中找答案
Nature has been called the greatest architect of forms.	大自然一向被称为是伟大的造型建筑师
And I'm not saying that we should copy nature, I'm not saying we should mimic biology, instead I propose that we can borrow nature's processes.	我意思不是去仿造大自然 也不是去模仿生物 而是借鉴大自然的方法
We can abstract them and to create something that is new.	我们能取其精华然后创造出新的东西
Nature's main process of creation, morphogenesis, is the splitting of one cell into two cells.	大自然的主要造物方法，所谓的形态建成 就是一个细胞分裂成两个
And these cells can either be identical, or they can be distinct from each other through asymmetric cell division.	这些细胞或者形态相同 或者通过不对称细胞分裂 而彼此形态各异
If we abstract this process, and simplify it as much as possible, then we could start with a single sheet of paper, one surface, and we could make a fold and divide the surface into two surfaces.	如果我们提取这个过程，并将它尽可能地简化 那么我们可以从一张纸开始入手 在一个面上我们对折 使它形成两个面
We're free to choose where we make the fold.	我们可以随意选择在哪对折
And by doing so, we can differentiate the surfaces.	这样做后，我们就能制作不同的面
Through this very simple process, we can create an astounding variety of forms.	通过这一简单的过程， 我们就能创造出无数种变化的造型
Now, we can take this form and use the same process to generate three-dimensional structures, but rather than folding things by hand, we'll bring the structure into the computer, and code it as an algorithm.	现在，我们用这种形式，用相同的过程 来生成一个三维的结构 但不再是手工折叠 我们就在电脑里操作 然后用运算法则写下代码
And in doing so, we can suddenly fold anything.	这样做的话，我们就能瞬间对折任何东西了
We can fold a million times faster, we can fold in hundreds and hundreds of variations.	我们能将速度提升到一百万倍 我们能折出成千上万种变化
And as we're seeking to make something three-dimensional, we start not with a single surface, but with a volume.	正因为我们试图做出一些三维的东西出来 我们没有从单一的平面入手，而是转向立方体
A simple volume, the cube.	一个简单的立方体--正方形
If we take its surfaces and fold them again and again and again and again, then after 16 iterations, 16 steps, we end up with 400,000 surfaces and a shape that looks, for instance, like this.	如果我们将它的各平面对折 并且不断地对折 反复进行16次，16个步骤后， 我们得到了400，000个面，和一个这样的形状 比如说，像这样。
And if we change where we make the folds, if we change the folding ratio, then this cube turns into this one.	如果我们改变一下对折的地方 如果我们改变下对折的比率 那么这个立方体就会变成这样
We can change the folding ratio again to produce this shape, or this shape.	我们还能通过调节对折比率做出这种造型， 或这种
So we exert control over the form by specifying the position of where we're making the fold, but essentially you're looking at a folded cube.	所以我们能通过指定对折的位置 从而对造型进行控制 但事实上你们看到的只是一个经过折叠的立方体
And we can play with this.	我们也能这样做
We can apply different folding ratios to different parts of the form to create local conditions.	我们可以对不同的部位采用不同的对折比率 从而调节出不同部位的特色
We can begin to sculpt the form.	我们就能开始进行造型了
And because we're doing the folding on the computer, we are completely free of any physical constraints.	由于这些对折是在电脑上进行的 所以我们完全不收任何物理禁锢
So that means that surfaces can intersect themselves, they can become impossibly small.	这也意味着这些面能相互交叉 也能变得极其的微小
We can make folds that we otherwise could not make.	我们能摆脱常规进行折叠
Surfaces can become porous.	表面可以变得多孔
They can stretch. They can tear.	可以延伸，也可以撕扯
And all of this expounds the scope of forms that we can produce.	所有的这一切都证明了我们造型的范围
But in each case, I didn't design the form.	但在每个实例中，我并没对造型进行设计。
I designed the process that generated the form.	我只是设计了创造造型的过程
In general, if we make a small change to the folding ratio, which is what you're seeing here, then the form changes correspondingly.	总之，哪怕我们对对折比例做出小小的调整 正如你目前所见到的 这个造型也会相应做出改变
But that's only half of the story -- 99.9 percent of the folding ratios produce not this, but this, the geometric equivalent of noise.	但故事到这里只不过才进行了一半 99.9%的对折比例产生的不是这种形态， 而是这种形态，在几何学上等同于噪音
The forms that I showed before were made actually through very long trial and error.	那些我刚展示的造型 其实是经过了长时间的试验和挫折
A far more effective way to create forms, I have found, is to use information that is already contained in forms.	进行造型时，我发现了一种效率极高的方式 就是利用已经包含在造型里的信息
A very simple form such as this one actually contains a lot of information that may not be visible to the human eye.	在一个简单的造型里，比方这个 它就包含了很多我们肉眼看不到的信息
So, for instance, we can plot the length of the edges.	所以，我们可以标绘出边缘的长度
White surfaces have long edges, black ones have short ones.	白色表面的边缘较长，黑色的则较短
We can plot the planarity of the surfaces, their curvature, how radial they are -- all information that may not be instantly visible to you, but that we can bring out, that we can articulate, and that we can use to control the folding.	我们能标绘出这些面的平面度和曲率 它们有多放射状--所有的这些信息 不一定立马就能被你看到 但我们能发现它，我们能将之描述出来 我们能运用这些信息来控制如何折叠
So now I'm not specifying a single ratio anymore to fold it, but instead I'm establishing a rule, I'm establishing a link between a property of a surface and how that surface is folded.	所以我不再指定一个 单一的折叠率进行对折 相反，我确立了一个规则 我将一个面的属性和它怎样被折叠 给联系起来
And because I've designed the process and not the form, I can run the process again and again and again to produce a whole family of forms.	也正因为我设计的是方法而非造型 所以我能够一次又一次地使用这种方法 以此得到一个族系的造型
These forms look elaborate, but the process is a very minimal one.	这些造型看起来很精细，但制作的方法却很简单
There is a simple input, it's always a cube that I start with, and it's a very simple operation -- it's making a fold, and doing this over and over again.	一个简单的输入 我一直都从立方体着手 而且操作也简单--就对折 不断对折
So let's bring this process to architecture.	所以我们不妨将这个过程引入建筑学
How? And at what scale?	怎么做？以什么准则？
I chose to design a column.	我决定设计一根柱子
Columns are architectural archetypes.	柱子是建筑的基模
They've been used throughout history to express ideals about beauty, about technology.	纵观历史，柱子被用来表达 美感，科技
A challenge to me was how we could express this new algorithmic order in a column.	我遇到的挑战是我们要怎样 在柱子表达这些新的算法
I started using four cylinders.	我一开始用了四根圆柱体
Through a lot of experimentation, these cylinders eventually evolved into this.	通过大量的试验，这些圆柱体 最终进化成这个样子
And these columns, they have information at very many scales.	而且这些柱子蕴含信息的范围很广
We can begin to zoom into them.	我们放大来看
The closer one gets, the more new features one discovers.	你越靠近，就会越发现新特点
Some formations are almost at the threshold of human visibility.	一些构造几乎就要超出人类的视觉范围
And unlike traditional architecture, it's a single process that creates both the overall form and the microscopic surface detail.	这不像传统的建筑学 它只需一个简单的方法就能同时获得 整体的造型和显微的表面细节
These forms are undrawable.	这些造型是画不出来的
An architect who's drawing them with a pen and a paper would probably take months, or it would take even a year to draw all the sections, all of the elevations, you can only create something like this through an algorithm.	建筑师如果想用笔和纸把他们画出来 可能要画上好几个月 想把各个部分，各个正面图都画出来 甚至得画上一年，你只能通过 运算法则得到这些东西
The more interesting question, perhaps, is, are these forms imaginable?	更有趣的问题，也许是 这些造型是可以想象出来的吗？
Usually, an architect can somehow envision the end state of what he is designing.	大多数情况，建筑师都能在脑海里浮现自己所设计的 最终效果图
In this case, the process is deterministic.	而在这种情况下，起决定作用的是那个过程
There's no randomness involved at all, but it's not entirely predictable.	毫无随意性的存在 也非完全可预见
There's too many surfaces, there's too much detail, one can't see the end state.	有太多太多的平面 有太多的细节，谁也看不到最终效果
So this leads to a new role for the architect.	这也就赋予了建筑师新的角色
One needs a new method to explore all of the possibilities that are out there.	他们需要一种新方法去探索各种可能性 而它们就在那里
For one thing, one can design many variants of a form, in parallel, and one can cultivate them.	一方面，建筑师可以设计出一个造型的不同变体 同时，他又可以让它们发展出其他的形态
And to go back to the analogy with nature, one can begin to think in terms of populations, one can talk about permutations, about generations, about crossing and breeding to come up with a design.	当回到利用大自然进行类比时 建筑师可以参照种群进行思考 他们可以从种群的变换，世代 相交和繁衍中寻找创意
And the architect is really, he moves into the position of being an orchestrator of all of these processes.	而且建筑师真的变身为 整个创作过程的管弦乐演奏家
But enough of the theory.	理论说的足够多了
At one point I simply wanted to jump inside this image, so to say, I bought these red and blue 3D glasses, got up very close to the screen, but still that wasn't the same as being able to walk around and touch things.	我曾一度想跳进这个画面中 打个比方，我买了些红蓝3D眼镜 凑到屏幕前去看 依然得不到那种 漫步其中亲密接触的感觉
So there was only one possibility -- to bring the column out of the computer.	所以就只有一种做法 把它从电脑里带到现实中来
There's been a lot of talk now about 3D printing.	其实现在有很多3D印刷的理论
For me, or for my purpose at this moment, there's still too much of an unfavorable tradeoff between scale, on the one hand, and resolution and speed, on the other.	但对我来说，或就我目前的想法而言， 依旧是有太多在比例上不尽人意的权衡 一方面，是比例，另一方面，则是分辨率和速率
So instead, we decided to take the column, and we decided to build it as a layered model, made out of very many slices, thinly stacked over each other.	所以，我们决定把柱子 以层级模式给做出来 以多切割，薄层叠的方式展现出来
What you're looking at here is an X-ray of the column that you just saw, viewed from the top.	你们目前看到的是刚刚那个柱子 的x射线图，从上往下看的
Unbeknownst to me at the time, because we had only seen the outside, the surfaces were continuing to fold themselves, to grow on the inside of the column, which was quite a surprising discovery.	我当时感到很新颖 因为以前都是从外面去看 那些面还在不停地对折 而且是在柱子的内部对折 这个发现是个惊喜
From this shape, we calculated a cutting line, and then we gave this cutting line to a laser cutter to produce -- and you're seeing a segment of it here -- very many thin slices, individually cut, on top of each other.	从这个模型中我们算出了一条切割线 然后我们用激光切割机进行切割 从而制造--你现在看到的是一个部分 有很多相互堆积而成的很薄的切面
And this is a photo now, it's not a rendering, and the column that we ended up with after a lot of work, ended up looking remarkably like the one that we had designed in the computer.	这是一张照片，不是绘制出来的 在付出很多心血后， 我们得到了这个振奋人心的柱子 就如同我们在电脑中设计的一样
Almost all of the details, almost all of the surface intricacies were preserved.	几乎所以的细节 几乎所有的复杂平面都得以保留
But it was very labor intensive.	但这相当地耗费劳动力
There's a huge disconnect at the moment still between the virtual and the physical.	目前，虚拟空间和物理存在之间 仍存在巨大的断层
It took me several months to design the column, but ultimately it takes the computer about 30 seconds to calculate all of the 16 million faces.	我们花了好几个月去塑造这根柱子 而运算这个1600万个表面 电脑只需简单的30秒就搞定
The physical model, on the other hand, is 2,700 layers, one millimeter thick, it weighs 700 kilos, it's made of sheet that can cover this entire auditorium.	另一方面，这个实体模型 有2700层1毫米厚的叠层 重约700公斤，是用可以覆盖这整个礼堂 的薄板做成的
And the cutting path that the laser followed goes from here to the airport and back again.	激光所切割出来的路径 够从这里到机场一个来回
But it is increasingly possible.	但这一切变得越来越有希望
Machines are getting faster, it's getting less expensive, and there's some promising technological developments just on the horizon.	机器不断地在加速，价格也不断地在下降 一些有希望有前途的高科技发展 也即将面世
These are images from the Gwangju Biennale.	这些是光州艺术展上的图片
And in this case, I used ABS plastic to produce the columns, we used the bigger, faster machine, and they have a steel core inside, so they're structural, they can bear loads for once.	在那里，我用了丙烯腈-丁二烯-苯乙烯塑料来做原料 我们采用了更大更快的机器 柱子中心都内置钢铁核心，所以不单有结构性 还能负重
Each column is effectively a hybrid of two columns.	每根柱子都是两根柱子的混合体
You can see a different column in the mirror, if there's a mirror behind the column that creates a sort of an optical illusion.	你能在镜子中看到不同的柱子 这些柱子后面的镜子 能产生一种视觉错觉的效果
So where does this leave us?	这些都说明什么呢？
I think this project gives us a glimpse of the unseen objects that await us if we as architects begin to think about designing not the object, but a process to generate objects.	我觉得这个项目让我们得以一瞥那些等待我们去发掘的前所未见的东西 作为建筑师的我们不妨思考一下，我们不是要设计物品 而是去设计一种方法来创造物品
I've shown one simple process that was inspired by nature; there's countless other ones.	我已经展示了受大自然启发的一个方法 但方法是无穷尽的
In short, we have no constraints.	简而言之，我们不受约束
Instead, we have processes in our hands right now that allow us to create structures at all scales that we couldn't even have dreamt up.	相反，此刻我们手中掌握着的是各种方法 能使我们创造出以前不敢想象的 不受任何比例的约束的构造
And, if I may add, at one point we will build them.	我希望，在某个时候我能将之付诸实践。
Thank you.	谢谢
Fifty years ago in the old Soviet Union, a team of engineers was secretly moving a large object through a desolate countryside.	50年以前在前苏联 一队工程师秘密移动一个庞大的物体 通过荒原。
With it, they were hoping to capture the minds of people everywhere by being the first to conquer outer space.	利用这个物体，第一次征服外太空 他们希望能够引起世界各地人们的关注。
The rocket was huge.	火箭非常庞大
And packed in its nose was a silver ball with two radios inside.	在火箭的顶端搭载了一个银球 银球中有两台无线电。
On October 4, 1957, they launched their rocket.	1957年10月4日他们发射了火箭
One of the Russian scientists wrote at the time: "We are about to create a new planet that we will call Sputnik.	那时其中的某位俄罗斯科学家写道： "我们将会创造一个新的行球 并将其命名为"Sputnik"
In the olden days, explorers like Vasco da Gama and Columbus had the good fortune to open up the terrestrial globe.	在过去的日子里，探险者们 如瓦斯科.达伽马和哥伦布 都曾经有幸开拓了地球
Now we have the good fortune to open up space.	而现在我们将有幸开拓宇宙空间。
And it is for those in the future to envy us our joy."	未来的人们将会羡慕我们的成就。"
You're watching snippets from "Sputnik," my fifth documentary feature, which is just about completed.	您正在观看的是来自电影"人造卫星"的片段 这是我刚完成的第五部纪录长片
It tells the story of Sputnik, and the story of what happened to America as a result.	它讲述了苏联人造卫星的故事 以及它对美国所带来的影响
For days after the launch, Sputnik was a wonderful curiosity.	在人造卫星发射之后的一段时间里 苏联人造卫星成为了关注的焦点。
A man-made moon visible by ordinary citizens, it inspired awe and pride that humans had finally launched an object into space.	人造月亮在星空中肉眼可见 它激发了敬畏和骄傲 人类终于能够将物体发射到太空中了。
But just three days later, on a day they called Red Monday, the media and the politicians told us, and we believed, that Sputnik was proof that our enemy had beaten us in science and technology, and that they could now attack us with hydrogen bombs, using their Sputnik rocket as an IBM missile.	但是仅仅三天之后，这天他们称为红色星期一 媒体和政治家们告诉我们 人造卫星证明了 我们的敌人 在科技上超越了我们 并且他们能够将人造卫星用作IBM 利用将人造卫星运载火箭作为IBM（ICBM洲际导弹）。
All hell broke loose.	所有的一切变得一团糟。
Sputnik quickly became one of the three great shocks to hit America -- historians say the equal of Pearl Harbor or 9/11.	苏联人造卫星很快成为冲击美国的三个震惊之一 历史学家称它可与珍珠港或9/11事件相提并论
It provoked the missile gap.	它引出了美苏两国导弹力量差距的观点。
It exploded an arms race.	并因此引发了两国之间的军备竞赛。
It began the space race.	从此太空竞赛拉开帷幕。
Within a year, Congress funded huge weapons increases, and we went from 1,200 nuclear weapons to 20,000.	一年之内，国会大幅度提高了军事预算 我们将核武器数量从1200枚 大幅度地提高到了2万枚。
And the reactions to Sputnik went far beyond weapons increases.	人造卫星的影响不仅仅在武器数量增长上。
For example, some here will remember this day, June 1958, the National Civil Defense Drill, where tens of millions of people in 78 cities went underground.	例如，在座的各位也许记得 1958年6月的这一天 进行了国家民防演习 78个城市的数以千万计居民躲进了地下。
Or the Gallup Poll that showed that seven in 10 Americans believed that a nuclear war would happen, and that at least 50 percent of our population was going to be killed.	或者盖洛普民意调查显示七成美国人 相信未来将会发生核战争 并且至少我们一半人口 将会死于战争。
But Sputnik provoked wonderful changes as well.	但是人造卫星同样也引起了令人高兴的变化。
For example, some in this room went to school on scholarship because of Sputnik.	例如，在座中也许有人因为人造卫星 而获得奖学金进入大学。
Support for engineering, math and science -- education in general -- boomed.	对工程，数学和科学的支持 使教育得到了长足发展
And Vint Cerf points out that Sputnik led directly to ARPA, and the Internet, and, of course, NASA.	并且温顿.瑟夫认为人造卫星 直接导致了ARPA以及互联网 和NASA的诞生。
My feature documentary shows how a free society can be stampeded by those who know how to use media.	我的纪录片将会展示自由的社会是 如何被善于利用媒体的人所蛊惑。
But it also shows how we can turn what appears at first to be a bad situation, into something that was overall very good for America.	但它也展示了我们如何 从最初认为的坏局面 慢慢地转变成为对美国有利的事件的。
"Sputnik" will soon be released.	"人造卫星"将会很快上映
In closing, I would like to take a moment to thank one of my investors: longtime TEDster, Jay Walker.	最后，我想利用此机会感谢 我们的投资者之一： 永远的TEDster,杰.沃克
And I'd like to thank you all.	感谢您们的倾听
Thank you, Chris.	谢谢你，克里斯
OK. We've heard a lot of people speak at this conference about the power of the human mind.	在这次的会议上， 我们已经听到了很多人 讲解人类意志的力量。
And what I'd like to do today is give you a vivid example of how that power can be unleashed when someone is in a survival situation, how the will to survive can bring that out in people.	而我今天想做的 就是带给你们一个鲜明的例子， 它展示人们是如何在亟需生存的环境下 释放这种力量的， 以及这种力量是如何被生存的欲望所激发。
This is an incident which occurred on Mount Everest; it was the worst disaster in the history of Everest.	这是发生在珠穆朗玛峰上的一个事件。 它是珠穆朗玛历史上最惨重的灾难。
And when it occurred, I was the only doctor on the mountain.	灾难发生时，我是珠峰上唯一的医生。
So I'll take you through that and we'll see what it's like when someone really summons the will to survive.	所以我将带领你们重温那次灾难， 身临其境地去感受一下。 当人们唤醒自身对生存的渴求时， 究竟是怎样的一种情形。
OK, this is Mount Everest.	这就是珠穆朗玛峰。
It's 29,035 feet high.	海拔29035英尺。
I've been there six times: Four times I did work with National Geographic, making tectonic plate measurements; twice, I went with NASA doing remote sensing devices.	我总共去过那里六次。四次是跟着国家地理 丈量构造板块。 两次是跟着美国航天局 研究远程感测系统。
It was on my fourth trip to Everest that a comet passed over the mountain. Hyakutake.	在我第四次珠穆朗玛之行的时候， 一个彗星，百武彗星划过峰顶。
And the Sherpas told us then that was a very bad omen, and we should have listened to them.	随行的夏尔巴人告诉我们 这是个凶兆， 事后想想，我们真应该听从他们的意见。
Everest is an extreme environment.	珠穆朗玛是个极端的环境。
There's only one-third as much oxygen at the summit as there is at sea level.	峰顶的氧气只是海平面的三分之一。
Near the summit, temperatures can be 40 degrees below zero.	靠近峰顶的地方， 气温可以到达零下40度。
You can have winds 20 to 40 miles an hour.	风速有时高达每小时20到40英里。
It's actually a wind-chill factor which is lower than a summer day on Mars.	这其实是"风冷因素"， 它要比火星上的夏天还要寒冷。
I remember one time being up near the summit, I reached into my down jacket for a drink from my water bottle, inside my down jacket, only to discover that the water was already frozen solid.	我记得有一次，在离峰顶不远的地方， 我伸手到我的鸭绒衣里 想拿出我的水壶喝口水， 当时我的水壶是在我的鸭绒衣里， 但我伸手进去的时候却发现水壶里的水已经冰冻如石了。
That gives you an idea of just how severe things are near the summit.	你们由此可以想象峰顶的环境 是何等的恶劣。
OK, this is the route up Everest.	这就是登顶的线路图。
It starts at base camp, at 17,500 feet.	从17500英尺的大本营开始。
Camp One, 2,000 feet higher.	2000英尺之上是一号营地，
Camp Two, another 2,000 feet higher up, what's called the Western Cwm.	再往上2000英尺是二号营地 昵称"西库姆冰斗"。
CampThree is at the base of Lhotse, which is the fourth highest mountain in the world, but it's dwarfed by Everest.	三号营是在洛子峰的山脚。 洛子峰是世界上第四高的山峰，但和珠穆朗玛峰相比，还是小巫见大巫了。
And then Camp Four is the highest camp; that's 3,000 feet short of the summit.	四号营是最高的营地。 距离峰顶只有3000英尺。
This is a view of base camp.	这就是大本营，
This is pitched on a glacier at 17,500 feet.	搭建在17500英尺高的冰川上。
It's the highest point you can bring your yaks before you have to unload.	这大本营就是你随行的牦牛所能攀爬的最高点， 在这之后你就不得不卸下行囊。
And this is what they unloaded for me: I had four yak loads of medical supplies, which are dumped in a tent, and here I am trying to arrange things.	而这就是我当时所卸下来的东西。 我一共带了四个牦牛才能承载的医疗用品， 全部被转放在一个帐篷里。 这是我在整理杂物。
This was our expedition.	这是我们的探险队。
It was a National Geographic expedition, but it was organized by The Explorers Club.	它是一个国家地理的探险队， 不过是由探险者俱乐部组织的。
There were three other expeditions on the mountain, an American team, a New Zealand team and an IMAX team.	当时还有其他的三个探险队在山上， 一个美国队，一个新西兰队， 还有一个IMAX电影摄像队。
And, after actually two months of preparation, we built our camps all the way up the mountain.	经过两个月的准备， 我们一路搭建帐篷直奔山顶。
This is a view looking up the icefall, the first 2,000 feet of the climb up from base camp.	这是仰望"冰布"的景象。 它是从大本营算起的 首个2000英尺攀爬。
And here's a picture in the icefall; it's a waterfall, but it's frozen, but it moves very slowly, and it actually changes every day.	这是一幅冰布内部的照片。 它其实是一个瀑布，但已经被冻结，很缓慢地流动着， 而且每天都会有变化。
When you're in it, you're like a rat in a maze; you can't even see over the top.	当你深处其中的时候，感觉就好像是一只在迷宫里的老鼠一样， 甚至无法看到顶端。
This is near the top of the icefall.	这是距离冰布顶部很近的地方。
You want to climb through at night when the ice is frozen.	要等到夜晚降临，冰全部冻结的时候，才可以爬过去，
That way, it's less likely to tumble down on you.	以避免冰块在你脚下分裂。
These are some climbers reaching the top of the icefall just at sun-up.	这是些在日出时，登上冰布顶的攀爬者们。
This is me crossing a crevasse.	这是我跨越一个裂缝。
We cross on aluminum ladders with safety ropes attached.	我们攀爬一个有安全绳索的铝制梯子。
That's another crevasse.	这是另一个裂缝。
Some of these things are 10 stories deep or more, and one of my climbing friends says that the reason we actually climb at night is because if we ever saw the bottom of what we're climbing over, we would never do it.	有些裂缝有十层楼那么深，甚至更深。 跟我同行的攀爬者说 我们之所以选择在夜晚攀爬 是因为如果我们可以清楚看见 我们所攀爬的裂缝的底部的话， 我们是打死也不会爬过去的。
Okay. This is Camp One.	这就是一号营。
It's the first flat spot you can reach after you get up to the top of the icefall.	是在爬过冰布顶部之后 遇到的第一块平地。
And from there we climb up to Camp Two, which is sort of the foreground.	从那里，我们继续爬往二号营， 看起来好像是前景。
These are climbers moving up the Lhotse face, that mountain toward Camp Three.	这些登山者正沿着洛子峰 爬往第三营。
They're on fixed ropes here.	他们捆绑着固定的绳索。
A fall here, if you weren't roped in, would be 5,000 feet down.	如果你在这里跌倒，身上又没有保护绳索的话， 迎接你的将是5000英尺的坠落。
This is a view taken from camp three.	这是三号营的照片。
You can see the Lhotse face is in profile, it's about a 45 degree angle. It takes two days to climb it, so you put the camp halfway through.	你可以看到洛子峰的侧面。 45度的仰角，要花两天的时间才能爬到顶。 所以你得在半途中驻扎营地。
If you notice, the summit of Everest is black.	如果你仔细看的话，会发现珠穆朗玛的峰顶是黑色的。
There's no ice over it.	上面并没有冰的覆盖。
And that's because Everest is so high, it's in the jet stream, and winds are constantly scouring the face, so no snow gets to accumulate.	这是因为珠穆朗玛是如此之高， 它处于急流层， 狂风不停地席卷着表面， 因此没有积雪的残留。
What looks like a cloud behind the summit ridge is actually snow being blown off the summit.	山脊后面那看起来像云彩的东西 实际上是被风吹散的白雪。
This is on the way up from Camp Three to Camp Four, moving in, up through the clouds.	这是有三号营攀往四号营， 穿过云层。
And this is at Camp Four.	这是四号营。
Once you get to Camp Four, you have maybe 24 hours to decide if you're going to go for the summit or not.	一旦你抵达四号营，你只有大概24个小时的时间 来决定你是否要登顶。
Everybody's on oxygen, your supplies are limited, and you either have to go up or go down, make that decision very quickly.	因为每个人都需要氧气罩。而氧气存量又是有限的。 所以你必须快速做出决定， 要么登顶，要么下山。
This is a picture of Rob Hall.	这是Rob Hall的照片。
He was the leader of the New Zealand team.	他是新西兰队的领头人。
This is a radio he used later to call his wife that I'll tell you about.	这是他后来用来给他妻子打电话的收音机， 我等一下会跟你们详细介绍。
These are some climbers waiting to go to the summit.	这是些等着登顶的登山者们。
They're up at Camp Four, and you can see that there's wind blowing off the summit.	他们正在四号营。你们可以看到，冷风正吹过峰顶。
This is not good weather to climb in, so the climbers are just waiting, hoping that the wind's going to die down.	这种天气并不利于登山， 所以这些登山者们只是等候者，期盼寒风可以减缓。
And, in fact, the wind does die down at night.	事实上，大风在那晚的确是减弱了。
It becomes very calm, there's no wind at all.	变得非常平静。根本是一点风都没有。
This looks like a good chance to go for the summit.	看上去是登顶的绝佳良机。
So here are some climbers starting out for the summit on what's called the Triangular Face.	这里看到就是一些开始向峰顶前进的登山者们， 他们所攀爬的就是所谓的"三角峰面"。
It's the first part of climb.	这只是登顶的第一步。
It's done in the dark, because it's actually less steep than what comes next, and you can gain daylight hours if you do this in the dark.	这是在夜间进行的，因为随后的登程要比这个陡很多， 所以在夜间出发的话，就可以稍后获取宝贵的日光。
So that's what happened.	这就是当时的情形。
The climbers got on the southeast ridge.	登山者们登上东南山脊，
This is the view looking at the southeast ridge.	这是瞭望东南山脊的景象。
The summit would be in the foreground.	峰顶就在前景中。
From here, it's about 1,500 feet up at a 30-degree angle to the summit.	从这里算起，距离峰顶大概是1500英尺 30度仰角的攀爬。
But what happened that year was the wind suddenly and unexpectedly picked up.	但那年所发生的事情是 风速突然意想不到地加大。
A storm blew in that no one was anticipating.	暴风在无人预知的情况下突袭。
You can see here some ferocious winds blowing snow way high off the summit.	你在这里看到一些狂风暴雪 席卷峰顶。
And there were climbers on that summit ridge.	而登山者们就在那个峰顶脊梁上。
This is a picture of me in that area taken a year before, and you can see I've got an oxygen mask on with a rebreather.	这是一张我一年前 在那个区域拍摄的照片。 你可以看到我带着氧气罩 和呼吸器。
I have an oxygen hose connected here.	我有一个氧气栓连在这里。
You can see on this climber, we have two oxygen tanks in the backpack -- little titanium tanks, very lightweight -- and we're not carrying much else.	你可以看到在这个登山者的背包中有两个氧气罐， 小的钛金罐，非常轻便。 我们也没有携带过多的其他东西。
This is all you've got. You're very exposed on the summit ridge.	这就是你所需的一起。在峰顶脊梁上，你的一切都暴露在外。
OK, this is a view taken on the summit ridge itself.	这是站在峰顶脊梁上拍摄的一张照片。
This is on the way toward the summit, on that 1,500-foot bridge.	这是前往峰顶的路上 经过那个1500英尺的链接路。
All the climbers here are climbing unroped, and the reason is because the drop off is so sheer on either side that if you were roped to somebody, you'd wind up just pulling them off with you.	所有的登山者都没有捆绑绳索， 原因是因为 两边都极其陡峭， 如果你和他人用绳索连在一起的话， 一旦失足，会连同其他人一起坠下山。
So each person climbs individually.	所以每个人都是单独攀登。
And it's not a straight path at all, it's very difficult climbing, and there's always the risk of falling on either side.	而且攀登的线路并不是一条直线。 这是非常艰难的攀爬， 总是有 坠入两边的风险。
If you fall to your left, you're going to fall 8,000 feet into Nepal; if you fall to your right, you're going to fall 12,000 feet into Tibet.	如果你坠向左边，你将下落 8000英尺到达尼泊尔。 如果你坠向右边，你将下落 12000英尺到达西藏。
So it's probably better to fall into Tibet because you'll live longer.	所以还是跌入西藏比较好 至少你能多活一段时间。
But, either way, you fall for the rest of your life.	但不管怎样，你都将坠向死亡。
OK. Those climbers were up near the summit, along that summit ridge that you see up there, and I was down here in Camp Three.	这些登山者们即将到达顶峰， 沿着你们看到的那条峰顶脊梁而行进着， 而我当时则是身处下方的三号营。
My expedition was down in Camp Three, while these guys were up there in the storm.	我的探险队当时在三号营， 而这些登山者则是陷在暴风中。
The storm was so fierce that we had to lay, fully dressed, fully equipped, laid out on the tent floor to stop the tent from blowing off the mountain.	那场暴风是如此猛烈，我们不得不全身躺下， 全副武装地 躺在帐篷里 以防止帐篷被吹走。
It was the worst winds I've ever seen.	那是我所见过的最恶劣的暴风。
And the climbers up on the ridge were that much higher, 2,000 feet higher, and completely exposed to the elements.	而那些峰脊上的登山者们 则是身处高处，比我们所在地还要高2000英尺的地方， 并完全地暴露在暴风雪之中。
We were in radio contact with some of them.	我们通过无线电和他们中的一些人保持着联系。
This is a view taken along the summit ridge.	这是沿着峰脊所拍摄的一张照片。
Rob Hall, we heard by radio, was up here, at this point in the storm with Doug Hansen.	我们从无线电中收听到说 Rob Hall此时正在峰脊上，身处暴风中， Doug Hansen也和他在一起。
And we heard that Rob was OK, but Doug was too weak to come down.	我们听说Rob还可以， 但是Doug身体过虚，无法下山来。
He was exhausted, and Rob was staying with him.	他已经精疲力竭了。Rob就呆在他的身边。
We also got some bad news in the storm that Beck Weathers, another climber, had collapsed in the snow and was dead.	我们也听到了一些其他关于暴风的坏消息。 另一位登山者Beck Weathers 当时已经倒在雪中，不幸逝世了。
There were still 18 other climbers that we weren't aware of their condition.	还有另外18位登山者 所处情况我们当时不得而知。
They were lost. There was total confusion on the mountain; all the stories were confusing, most of them were conflicting.	他们迷失了。山上一片迷茫。 各项信息都令人费解，而且很多又是相互矛盾。
We really had no idea what was going on during that storm.	我们真的对暴风中的一切一无所知。
We were just hunkered down in our tents at Camp Three.	我们只是困守在 三号营的帐篷里。
Our two strongest climbers, Todd Burleson and Pete Athans, decided to go up to try to rescue who they could even though there was a ferocious storm going.	我们中最强壮的两个登山者Todd Burleson和Pete Athans 决定登顶去尝试援救可能援救的人， 虽然说当时的暴风依旧是格外猛烈。
They tried to radio a message to Rob Hall, who was a superb climber stuck, sort of, with a weak climber up near the summit.	他们试着给Rob Hall发送无线电信息。 Rob Hall是个杰出的登山者， 不过当时却是和一个相对较弱的登山者 困在了峰顶附近。
I expected them to say to Rob, "Hold on. We're coming."	我当时以为他们会对Rob说 "坚持。我们马上就来。"
But in fact, what they said was, "Leave Doug and come down yourself.	但事实上，他们说的是 "丢下Doug，你自己下山来。
There's no chance of saving him, and just try to save yourself at this point."	现在已经没有拯救他的机会了， 最重要的是拯救你自己。"
And Rob got that message, but his answer was, "We're both listening."	Rob收到了那条信息， 但他的回复是： "我们两个人都在收听这条信息。"
Todd and Pete got up to the summit ridge, up in here, and it was a scene of complete chaos up there.	Todd和Pete最终抵达了峰脊， 迎接他们的是一片混乱。
But they did what they could to stabilize the people.	但是他们还是竭尽所能稳定周边的人员。
I gave them radio advice from Camp Three, and we sent down the climbers that could make it down under their own power.	我从三号营通过无线电向他们传送建议， 我们让那些有能力自己下山的人员 自行下山。
The ones that couldn't we just sort of decided to leave up at Camp Four.	那些不能自己下山的人，我们决定将他们暂时搁放在四号营。
So the climbers were coming down along this route.	所以登山者们是沿着这条线路下来的。
This is taken from Camp Three, where I was.	这是在三号营，我当时的所在地，拍摄的照片。
And they all came by me so I could take a look at them and see what I could do for them, which is really not much, because Camp Three is a little notch cut in the ice in the middle of a 45-degree angle.	他们都来到我身边， 以便于我检查他们，看看有什么是我可以做的。 但我所能做的其实不多，因为三号营 是在45度的冰面上 凿出来一个小洞。
You can barely stand outside the tent.	现站在帐篷外面都难，
It's really cold; it's 24,000 feet.	因为实在是太冷了。而且又是在24000英尺的高地上。
The only supplies I had at that altitude were two plastic bags with preloaded syringes of painkiller and steroids.	在当时那个海拔上，我唯一的医疗器材 就是两个塑料袋中 事先装好了止痛药和类固醇的 针筒。
So, as the climbers came by me, I sort of assessed whether or not they were in condition to continue on further down.	所以这些登山者来到我身边， 由我来检测他们是否适合 继续向山下行进。
The ones that weren't that lucid or were not that well coordinated, I would give an injection of steroids to try to give them some period of lucidity and coordination where they could then work their way further down the mountain.	对于那些已经不太清醒的，手脚不太协调了的， 我就会注射一针类固醇， 来帮助他们暂时恢复 一些清醒和协调性， 这样他们可以继续向山下行进。
It's so awkward to work up there that sometimes I even gave the injections right through their clothes.	在那么高的地方医治有时候是相当困难的。 我甚至不得不直接将针管插过他们的衣服来进行注射。
It was just too hard to maneuver any other way up there.	在那种高度下，任何其他的办法 都很难奏效。
While I was taking care of them, we got more news about Rob Hall.	正当我照顾这些病人的时候， 我们得到了关于Rob Hall的最新消息。
There was no way we could get up high enough to rescue him.	在当时，我们是无论如何也无法及时赶到他所在的高度去援救他。
He called in to say that he was alone now.	他打电话进来，告诉我们说他现在是独自一人。
Apparently, Doug had died higher up on the mountain.	很显然，Doug已经在峰上的某个更高处离世了。
But Rob was now too weak to come down himself, and with the fierce winds and up at that altitude, he was just beyond rescue and he knew it.	但Rob现在已经变得无比虚弱，无法自己爬下山来。 更要命的是，风依旧是如此猛烈，他又在如此高的海拔上， 他是彻底无救了， 而他自己也清楚这一点。
At that point, he asked to be paged into his wife.	在那种情况下， 他请求联系他的妻子。
He was carrying a radio.	他当时携带着一个收音机。
His wife was home in New Zealand, seven months pregnant with their first child, and Rob asked to be patched into her. That was done, and Rob and his wife had their last conversation.	她的妻子正守在新西兰的家中， 怀着他们七个月大的第一个孩子。 Rob请求和她连线。我们达成了他的请求。 之后Rob和他的妻子 进行了最后的一次谈话，
They picked the name for their baby.	为他们的孩子选好了名字。
Rob then signed off, and that was the last we ever heard of him.	随后Rob就挂断了， 而那也是我们最后一次听到他的声音。
I was faced with treating a lot of critically ill patients at 24,000 feet, which was an impossibility.	我当时所面临的是近乎不可能完成的医疗任务── 在24000英尺的海拔上 医治一群病重的患者。
So what we did was, we got the victims down to 21,000 feet, where it was easier for me to treat them.	所以我们到头来做的是，是把这些患者 带到21000英尺的海拔。那里更方便我来医治他们。
This was my medical kit.	这就是我当时的医疗箱，
It's a tackle box filled with medical supplies.	是一个装满了医疗器备的钓具箱。
This is what I carried up the mountain.	这就是我带上山的一切，
I had more supplies lower down, which I asked to be brought up to meet me at the lower camp.	我在山下有更多的器备。 我已经叫人把这些器备带到低处的营地以便我随后使用。
And this was scene at the lower camp.	而就是当时在低处营地的场景。
The survivors came in one by one.	幸存者们一个个地走进来。
Some of them were hypothermic, some of them were frostbitten, some were both.	他们有些人体温过低， 有些人生了冻疮，而有的则是两者皆具。
What we did was try to warm them up as best we could, put oxygen on them and try to revive them, which is difficult to do at 21,000 feet, when the tent is freezing.	我们试着尽可能地让他们身体暖和起来， 给他们氧气，帮助他们呼吸， 这在21000英尺的海拔上， 在冰冷的帐篷中，并不是一件容易的事。
This is some severe frostbite on the feet, severe frostbite on the nose.	这是脚上的严重冻伤， 还有鼻子上的严重冻伤。
This climber was snow blind.	这个登山者患上了雪盲症。
As I was taking care of these climbers, we got a startling experience.	正当我医治这些登山者的时候， 不可思议的事情发生了。
Out of nowhere, Beck Weathers, who we had already been told was dead, stumbled into the tent, just like a mummy, he walked into the tent.	Beck Weather不知从哪里钻了出来， 我们之前被告知说他已经离世了， 不过他现在竟然像一个木乃伊一样 跌跌跄跄地走进了帐篷中。
I expected him to be incoherent, but, in fact, he walked into the tent and said to me, "Hi, Ken. Where should I sit?"	我本以为他会口齿不清， 但事实上他走进帐篷，对我说到： "嘿，Ken。我应该坐在哪里？"
And then he said, "Do you accept my health insurance?"	随后他又说到： "你接受我的医保不？"
He really said that.	那真是他的原话。
So he was completely lucid, but he was very severely frostbitten.	虽然他当时神智很清醒，但却被严重冻伤。
You can see his hand is completely white; his face, his nose, is burned.	你们可以看到，他的手已经全白了， 他的脸和鼻子则是被灼伤了。
First, it turns white, and then when it's completed necrosis, it turns black, and then it falls off.	它先会变白，当到达坏疽的阶段时， 它则会变黑，随后脱落。
It's the last stage, just like a scar.	这是最后的阶段，就像个结疤一样。
So, as I was taking care of Beck, he related what had been going on up there.	就在我照顾Beck的时候， 他向我重述了在峰上所发生的一切。
He said he had gotten lost in the storm, collapsed in the snow, and just laid there, unable to move.	他说他迷失在暴风中， 瘫在了雪中， 然后就躺在那里，无法移动。
Some climbers had come by and looked at him, and he heard them say, "He's dead."	有些登山者经过他身旁，打量了他一番， 然后他听到他们说，"他已经死了。"
But Beck wasn't dead; he heard that, but he was completely unable to move.	但Beck当时并没有死，他可以听清他们的谈话， 不过他完全无法移动。
He was in some sort of catatonic state where he could be aware of his surroundings, but couldn't even blink to indicate that he was alive.	他处于一种强直性昏厥的状态── 可以感知身边的环境， 却无法通过眨眼这样简单的事情来告诉别人他还活着。
So the climbers passed him by, and Beck lay there for a day, a night and another day, in the snow.	所以登山者们离他而去， Beck躺在那里，一天，一夜， 又一天， 在白雪中。
And then he said to himself, "I don't want to die.	但他告诉自己说： "我不想死。
I have a family to come back to."	我的家人还在等着我。"
And the thoughts of his family, his kids and his wife, generated enough energy, enough motivation in him, so that he actually got up.	他对他家人、他的孩子、 他的妻子的思念之情 给予了他充足的力量， 激发了他的动力， 于是他终于站了起来。
After laying in the snow that long a time, he got up and found his way back to the camp.	在雪中躺了那么长一段时间后， 他站了起来，并且找到了回营地的路。
And Beck told me that story very quietly, but I was absolutely stunned by it.	Beck轻声地向我讲述着这个故事， 但我却完全被其打动了。
I couldn't imagine anybody laying in the snow that long a time and then getting up.	我无法想象任何人可以在雪中 瘫痪那么久， 却依旧可以站起来。
He apparently reversed an irreversible hypothermia.	很明显，他逆转了 无法逆转的过低体温。
And I can only try to speculate on how he did it.	而我现在只能猜测 他是如何做到这一点的。
So, what if we had Beck hooked up to a SPECT scan, something that could actually measure brain function?	如果我们将Beck连到一个电脑扫描仪上， 来观测他当时的脑部活动， 我们会看到什么呢？
Just very simply, the three parts of the brain: the frontal lobe, where you focus your attention and concentration; you have the temporal lobe, where you form images and keep memories; and the posterior part of your brain, which contains the cerebellum, which controls motion; and the brain stem, where you have your basic maintenance functions, like heartbeat and respiration.	这是简化了的大脑的三个部分： 额叶── 用来集中注意力的组织； 颞叶── 用来构建影像、存储记忆的组织； 而在大脑的后部， 有控制行动的小脑， 以及协调如心跳、呼吸等 这些基本生命机理的 脑干。
So let's take a cut through the brain here, and imagine that Beck was hooked up to a SPECT scan.	所以让我们在这里截取这个大脑的横切片， 想象着Beck就连在 这个大脑扫描仪上，
This measures dynamic blood flow and therefore energy flow within the brain.	测量着动态血液流动， 也就是大脑中的能量流动。
So you have the prefrontal cortex here, lighting up in red.	这里，前额的大量活动 呈现红色。
This is a pretty evenly distributed scan.	这是一个分配相对平均的脑切片。
You have the middle area, where the temporal lobe might be, in here, and the posterior portion, where the maintenance functions are in the back.	大脑的中部在这里， 颞叶可能就在这里， 这是后脑的部分，基本机理的维护都在后面。
This is a roughly normal scan, showing equal distribution of energy.	这是一个比较正常的脑切片， 能量分布地很平均。
Now, you go to this one and you see how much more the frontal lobes are lighting up.	再来看看这张切片， 额叶是格外的兴奋。
This might be what Beck would be experiencing when he realizes he's in danger.	而这就有可能是当Beck意识到自己身处险境时， 所经历的事情。
He's focusing all his attention on getting himself out of trouble.	他集中了他所有的注意力， 一心只想脱离险境。
These parts of the brain are quieting down.	大脑这些部分的活动都被减缓。
He's not thinking about his family or anybody else at this point, and he's working pretty hard.	在这种状况下，他并没有在想着他的家人或是其他任何人， 而是在竭尽全力抗争着。
He's trying to get his muscles going and get out of this.	他正试着重新激活他的肌肉，脱离险境。
OK, but he's losing ground here.	不过他开始败退下来，
He's running out of energy.	他没有足够的能量。
It's too cold; he can't keep his metabolic fires going, and, you see, there's no more red here; his brain is quieting down.	天气过于寒冷，他无法维持他的新陈代谢。 如你所见，这里不再是红色的了。 他的大脑开始安静下来。
He's collapsed in the snow here. Everything is quiet, there's very little red anywhere.	他瘫在了雪中。一切都变得鸦雀无声。 红色的部分一点点消逝。
Beck is powering down.	Beck的能量一点点流失。
He's dying.	他正一步步接近死亡。
You go on to the next scan, but, in Beck's case, you can see that the middle part of his brain is beginning to light up again.	不过当我们来到下一张脑切片， 我们会看到 Beck大脑的中间部分 又变得兴奋起来。
He's beginning to think about his family.	他还是回想他的家人。
He's beginning to have images that are motivating him to get up.	他脑中浮现家人的各种影像 激励他站起来。
He's developing energy in this area through thought.	仅仅通过思考， 他在这个区域中聚集了能量。
And this is how he's going to turn thought back into action.	这就是他如何将思想 转化为行动。
This part of the brain is called the anterior cingulate gyrus.	这部分的大脑被称为带状前回。
It's an area in which a lot of neuroscientists believe the seat of will exists.	很多脑部专家相信 这个区域 就是人类意志的所在。
This is where people make decisions, where they develop willpower.	这是人们做决定、培养意志的地方。
And, you can see, there's an energy flow going from the mid portion of his brain, where he's got images of his family, into this area, which is powering his will.	而且如你们所见，一股能量 正从充满他家人影像的大脑中部 流向 掌管其意志的区域。
Okay. This is getting stronger and stronger to the point where it's actually going to be a motivating factor.	而这股能量变得越来越强壮 直到它变成了 一个激励他的因素。
He's going to develop enough energy in that area -- after a day, a night and a day -- to actually motivate himself to get up.	在一天、一夜、又一天之后 他将在那个区域积攒足够的能量 来激励他站起来。
And you can see here, he's starting to get more energy into the frontal lobe.	如你所见， 他的额叶开始集聚更多的能量。
He's beginning to focus, he can concentrate now.	他开始集中精力。他现在可以全神贯注了。
He's thinking about what he's got to do to save himself.	他在考虑如何拯救自己。
So this energy has been transmitted up toward the front of his brain, and it's getting quieter down here, but he's using this energy to think about what he has to do to get himself going.	所以这股能量已经被转移到 他大脑的前部， 而这部分则变得渐渐安静下来， 不过他正在利用这股能量 来思考一个可以让他重新动起来的办法。
And then, that energy is sort of spreading throughout his thought areas.	而之后，这股能量就好似 在他的思想区域里扩散开来一样。
He's not thinking about his family now, and he's getting himself motivated.	他现在不再挂念他的家人，而是在想着如何激励他自己。
This is the posterior part, where his muscles are going to be moving, and he's going to be pacing himself.	这是大脑后部，帮助他的肌肉重新活动起来， 随后他将开始自我调整，
His heart and lungs are going to pick up speed.	他的心脏和肺将开始提速。
So this is what I can speculate might have been going on had we been able to do a SPECT scan on Beck during this survival epic.	如果我们可以将Beck连接在电脑扫描仪上， 我猜想这就是当时在他惊人的求生过程中 所发生的一切。
So here I am taking care of Beck at 21,000 feet, and I felt what I was doing was completely trivial compared to what he had done for himself.	这是我在海拔21000英尺的地方照顾Beck， 和他所做的一切自救相比 我感觉我所做的是如此微不足道。
It just shows you what the power of the mind can do.	这向你们展示了人类意志的力量。
He was critically ill, there were other critically ill patients; luckily, we were able to get a helicopter in to rescue these guys.	他病得很严重。还有许多其他的患者病得很严重。 幸运的是，我们得以获取一架直升飞机 来援救这些人。
A helicopter came in at 21,000 feet and carried out the highest helicopter rescue in history.	一架直升飞机来到21000的海拔处 完成了人类历史上海拔最高的直升机援救。
It was able to land on the ice, take away Beck and the other survivors, one by one, and get them off to Kathmandu in a clinic before we even got back to base camp.	它得以降落在冰上，将Beck 以及其他幸存者，一个个地运走， 并在我们赶回大本营之前， 就已经把他们送到了加德满都的一家诊所。
This is a scene at base camp, at one of the camps where some of the climbers were lost.	这是在大本营的一幕， 我们遇难的登山者中就有一些 来自其中的一个营地。
And we had a memorial service there a few days later.	几天后，我们在那里 举行了一场悼念仪式。
These are Serphas lighting juniper branches.	这是一些夏尔巴人燃烧杉树枝，
They believe juniper smoke is holy.	因为他们相信杉树的烟是神圣的。
And the climbers stood around on the high rocks and spoke of the climbers who were lost up near the summit, turning to the mountain, actually, to talk to them directly.	登山者们站在那些高处岩石的四周 追忆那些 在峰顶遇难的同伴们， 转向大山，去和他们直接对话。
There were five climbers lost here.	一共有五名登山者不幸逝世。
This was Scott Fischer, Rob Hall, Andy Harris, Doug Hansen and Yasuko Namba.	这是Scott Fischer， Rob Hall， Andy Harris， Doug Hansen 以及Yasuko Namba。
And one more climber should have died that day, but didn't, and that's Beck Weathers.	还有一名登山者 本应在那天逝世，但是却没有， 他就是Beck Weathers。
He was able to survive because he was able to generate that incredible willpower, he was able to use all the power of his mind to save himself.	而他幸存的原因 就是因为他可以召唤那股难以置信的意志力， 用他所用的精神力量 拯救了自己。
These are Tibetan prayer flags.	这些是藏族的祷告旗。
These Sherpas believe that if you write prayers on these flags, the message will be carried up to the gods, and that year, Beck's message was answered.	夏尔巴人们相信 如果你将祷告写在这些旗上面， 你的讯息将会被带往神那里。 而那一年，Beck的祈祷得到了回应。
Thank you.	谢谢。
Penelope Jagessar Chaffer: I was going to ask if there's a doctor in the house.	Penelope Jagessar Chaffer:我要问声这里是否有医生。
No, I'm just joking.	不问了，开个玩笑。
It's interesting, because it was six years ago when I was pregnant with my first child that I discovered that the most commonly used preservative in baby care products mimics estrogen when it gets into the human body.	很有趣，因为六年前 当我怀第一个宝宝的时候 我发现 最常用的防腐剂 用于婴儿制品 进入人体后 酷似雌性激素。
Now it's very easy actually to get a chemical compound from products into the human body through the skin.	事实上， 产品中的化学合成物 很容易透过皮肤进入人体。
And these preservatives had been found in breast cancer tumors.	并且，这些防腐剂 已经在乳腺癌肿瘤中发现。
That was the start of my journey to make this film, "Toxic Baby."	这就是我开始 拍摄《中毒宝宝》的起因。
And it doesn't take much time to discover some really astonishing statistics with this issue.	并且，不用花多少时间 就会发现有关这个问题的令人震惊的 统计数字。
One is that you and I all have between 30 to 50,000 chemicals in our bodies that our grandparents didn't have.	之一就是你和我 体内都带有30至5万种 化学制品 而我们的祖父母却没有的。
And many of these chemicals are now linked to the skyrocketing incidents of chronic childhood disease that we're seeing across industrialized nations.	其中很多的化学成分 现在联系到 工业化国家中常见的 飞速发展的慢性儿童疾病。
I'll show you some statistics.	我给大家看些数据。
So for example, in the United Kingdom, the incidence of childhood leukemia has risen by 20 percent just in a generation.	举个例子，在英国， 儿童白血病的发病率 在一代人中已提高了20%。
Very similar statistic for childhood cancer in the U.S.	在美国，儿童癌症发病率的增长数字也非常相似
In Canada, we're now looking at one in 10 Canadian children with asthma.	在加拿大，有十分之一的儿童患有哮喘。
That's a four-fold increase.	这是四倍的增长率。
Again, similar story around the world.	同样，类似的事情在世界各地发生着。
In the United States, probably the most astonishing statistic is a 600 percent increase in autism and autistic spectrum disorders and other learning disabilities.	在美国， 或许最令人震惊的数据 是自闭症，自闭症障碍 和其他学习障碍 600％的发病增长率。
Again, we're seeing that trend across Europe, across North America.	同样，我们看到这个趋势 在横扫欧洲和北美。
And in Europe, there's certain parts of Europe, where we're seeing a four-fold increase in certain genital birth defects.	在欧洲 某些地区， 我们看到有四倍增长的 一些生殖器先天缺陷案例。
Interestingly, one of those birth defects has seen a 200 percent increase in the U.S.	有趣的是，其中一种的先天缺陷的案例 在美国已经增长了200%。
So a real skyrocketing of chronic childhood disease that includes other things like obesity and juvenile diabetes, premature puberty.	同样正在真正激增的还有 慢性儿童疾病 以及其他疾病 譬如肥胖，青少年糖尿病， 早熟。
So it's interesting for me, when I'm looking for someone who can really talk to me and talk to an audience about these things, that probably one of the most important people in the world who can discuss toxicity in babies is expert in frogs.	我感到很有趣的是， 当我寻找一位能够真正和我讨论 并且对听众们谈论这些事的人 并且他可能是这世上很重要的一个 能讨论婴儿体内的毒性的人 却是个青蛙专家。
Tyrone Hayes: It was a surprise to me as well that I would be talking about pesticides, that I'd be talking about public health, because, in fact, I never thought I would do anything useful.	Tyrone Hayes：我也很吃惊 我会谈论杀虫剂， 我会谈论公共健康， 因为我从来没想过我会做什么有用的事。
Frogs.	青蛙。
In fact, my involvement in the whole pesticide issue was sort of a surprise as well when I was approached by the largest chemical company in the world and they asked me if I would evaluate how atrazine affected amphibians, or my frogs.	其实，我也吃惊会渉入 杀虫剂这个问题。 当时，世上最大的化学制品公司 来问我，是否能评估 阿特拉津对两栖动物或者说我的青蛙的影响。
It turns out, atrazine is the largest selling product for the largest chemical company in the world.	结果呢，原来阿特拉津是 世上最大的化学制品公司的最畅销产品。
It's the number one contaminant of groundwater, drinking water, rain water.	它含量最高的杂质 于地下水，饮用水和雨水。
In 2003, after my studies, it was banned in the European Union, but in that same year, the United States EPA re-registered the compound.	在2003年，在我的研究之后，阿特拉津被欧盟禁止了。 但是在同一年， 美国环保署重新注册了这个化合物。
We were a bit surprised when we found out that when we exposed frogs to very low levels of atrazine -- 0.1 parts per billion -- that it produced animals that look like this.	我们的发现令我们小吃一惊 当我们把青蛙暴露在 很低水平的阿特拉津中时，虽然10亿当中只有0.1部分， 创造出了长成这个样子的动物。
These are the dissected gonads of an animal that has two testes, two ovaries, another large testis, more ovaries, which is not normal ...	动物的生殖腺解剖显示出 它有两个睾丸，两个卵巢， 外加一个大的睾丸，几个卵巢， 这都不正常。
even for amphibians.	即使是对两栖动物来说。
In some cases, another species like the North American Leopard Frog showed that males exposed to atrazine grew eggs in their testes.	另外一些例子里，比如一种叫北美豹蚊蛙的物种 在暴露于阿特拉津后雄性的睾丸竟然长有卵子。
And you can see these large, yolked-up eggs bursting through the surface of this male's testes.	大家可以看到的这些大个的充满黄的卵子 布满雄性睾丸的外表。
Now my wife tells me, and I'm sure Penelope can as well, that there's nothing more painful than childbirth -- which that I'll never experience, I can't really argue that -- but I would guess that a dozen chicken eggs in my testicle would probably be somewhere in the top five.	我太太告诉我，当然Penelope也会说， 没有比生孩子更痛的事。 生孩子我永远不可能体验，所以我不会争辩这个。 但我会猜想如果我睾丸里有一打的鸡蛋的话， 这疼痛可能会排在前五个最疼痛的经历里面。
In recent studies that we've published, we've shown that some of these animals when they're exposed to atrazine, some of the males grow up and completely become females.	在我们发表的近期研究， 我们展示了当一些动物暴露在阿特拉津下的时候， 一些雄性的成长后 会变成完全的雌性。
So these are actually two brothers consummating a relationship.	所以，有些配偶关系实际上是两兄弟的组合。
And not only do these genetic males mate with other males, they actually have the capacity to lay eggs even though they're genetic males.	并不只是这些基因雄性和其他雄性交配， 他们实际上还有能力产卵， 尽管他们是基因雄性。
What we proposed, and what we've now generated support for, is that what atrazine is doing is wreaking havoc causing a hormone imbalance.	我们所提议的 我们也得到了支持， 就是阿特拉津 严重危害而导致荷尔蒙的不平衡。
Normally the testes should make testosterone, the male hormone.	通常睾丸应该产出雄性激素， 就是雄性荷尔蒙。
But what atrazine does is it turns on an enzyme, the machinery if you will, aromatase, that converts testosterone into estrogen.	但是阿特拉津所做的就是它会开启一种酶， 叫芳香化酶， 它会把雄性激素转化成雌性激素。
And as a result, these exposed males lose their testosterone, they're chemically castrated, and they're subsequently feminized because now they're making the female hormone.	结果就是，这些被暴露过的雄性 就失去了他们的雄性激素，他们是被化学阉制了， 因为他们不断制造雌性激素， 他们就被女性化了。
Now this is what brought me to the human-related issues.	现在，这就引到了跟人有关的话题。
Because it turns out that the number one cancer in women, breast cancer, is regulated by estrogen and by this enzyme aromatase.	事实证明 女性中最多的癌症-乳腺癌， 就是受控于雌性激素和芳香化酶。
So when you develop a cancerous cell in your breast, aromatase converts androgens into estrogens, and that estrogen turns on or promotes the growth of that cancer so that it turns into a tumor and spreads.	当你乳房里有了一个癌细胞， 芳香化酶就把雄性激素转化成雌性激素， 而那个雌性激素又启动或促进 癌症的成长， 因此它就形成肿块并扩散。
In fact, this aromatase is so important in breast cancer that the latest treatment for breast cancer is a chemical called letrozole, which blocks aromatase, blocks estrogen, so that if you developed a mutated cell, it doesn't grow into a tumor.	实际上，芳香化酶在乳腺癌上起很关键的作用。 最新的乳腺癌的治疗法， 就是用一种叫来曲唑的化学制品， 来阻止芳香化酶，阻止雌激素， 所以如果你产生了变异的细胞，它不会长成肿瘤。
Now what's interesting is, of course, that we're still using 80 million pounds of atrazine, the number one contaminant in drinking water, that does the opposite -- turns on aromatase, increases estrogen and promotes tumors in rats and is associated with tumors, breast cancer, in humans.	现在，有趣的是， 我们仍然在用八千万镑的阿特拉津， 饮用水中第一多的杂质，起着相反的作用- 启动芳香化酶，增加雌性激素， 在老鼠身上长肿瘤 在人身上引发的就是肿瘤，乳腺癌。
What's interesting is, in fact, the same company that sold us 80 million pounds of atrazine, the breast cancer promoter, now sells us the blocker -- the exact same company.	事实上，更有趣的是， 销售八千万镑的阿特拉津的公司 ——乳腺癌的推广者， 现在又在卖阻滞剂，同一家公司。
And so I find it interesting that instead of treating this disease by preventing exposure to the chemicals that promote it, we simply respond by putting more chemicals into the environment.	我感到有趣的是， 我们对付疾病的方法 不是预防暴露于引发疾病的化学制品 而是简单地 把更多的化学制品投入到环境里。
P So speaking of estrogen, one of the other compounds that Tyrone talks about in the film is something called bisphenol A, BPA, which has been in the news recently.	PJC：说到雌性激素， Tyrone在影片里提到的另一种叫做双酚A的化合物， 即BPA， 最近也有报道。
It's a plasticizer.	它是一种增塑剂。
It's a compound that's found in polycarbonate plastic, which is what baby bottles are made out of.	这种化合物在聚碳酸脂塑料里可见， 婴儿奶瓶就是用这种塑料制作的。
And what's interesting about BPA is that it's such a potent estrogen that it was actually once considered for use as a synthetic estrogen in hormone placement therapy.	BPA的有趣之处是， 它是一种很有效的雌激素， 曾被考虑用于 人造雌激素来做激素放置疗法。
And there have been many, many, many studies that have shown that BPA leaches from babies' bottles into the formula, into the milk, and therefore into the babies.	已经有过很多很多很多的研究表明 BPA从婴儿奶瓶 渗到婴儿食品，渗进奶水 所以也渗进到宝宝体内。
So we're dosing our babies, our newborns, our infants, with a synthetic estrogen.	所以，我们在给我们的宝宝们， 我们的新生儿们，我们的婴儿们 服用人造雌性激素。
Now two weeks ago or so, the European Union passed a law banning the use of BPA in babies' bottles and sippy cups.	大约两周前， 欧洲联盟通过一则法律 禁止使用BPA 在婴儿奶瓶和吸管杯中。
And for those of you who are not parents, sippy cups are those little plastic things that your child graduates to after using bottles.	对那些不是父母的说一声 吸管杯就是 宝宝们停止使用奶瓶的后的塑料替代物。
But just two weeks before that, the U.S. Senate refused to even debate the banning of BPA in babies' bottles and sippy cups.	但，也就是在两周前， 美国参议院竟拒绝 对禁止婴儿奶瓶和吸管杯 使用BPA之事展开辩论。
So it really makes you realize the onus on parents to have to look at this and regulate this and police this in their own lives and how astonishing that is.	这也让你们认识到 是父母的义务 去看待这件事，安排和监督 他们自己的生活， 这是很惊人的。
P With many plastic baby bottles now proven to leak the chemical bisphenol A, it really shows how sometimes it is only a parent's awareness that stands between chemicals and our children.	PJC：很多的婴儿奶瓶 已经证实有双酚A的渗漏， 也表明有时是 父母的关注 站在化学制品和我们孩子之间。
The baby bottle scenario proves that we can prevent unnecessary exposure.	婴儿奶瓶的情形证明 我们能够防止不必要的接触。
However, if we parents are unaware, we are leaving our children to fend for themselves.	可是，如果我们做父母的不知道， 那我们就让孩子们 照料他们自己去了。
TH: And what Penelope says here is even more true.	TH：Penelop说的 再真实不过了。
For those of you who don't know, we're in the middle of the sixth mass extinction.	你们可能还有不知道的，我们是在第六位大规模绝种之中。
Scientists agree now.	科学们都赞成。
We are losing species from the Earth faster than the dinosaurs disappeared, and leading that loss are amphibians.	我们地球上物种的流失 比恐龙消失还快 最快的就是两栖类。
80 percent of all amphibians are threatened and in come decline.	所有两栖动物的80% 受到威胁并在减少。
And I believe, many scientists believe that pesticides are an important part of that decline.	我相信，许多的科学家们也相信 杀虫剂是减少的主要原因。
In part, amphibians are good indicators and more sensitive because they don't have protection from contaminants in the water -- no eggshells, no membranes and no placenta.	在一定程度上，两栖动物是很好的指标且更敏感， 因为他们对水中的污染物没有任何保护- 没有蛋壳，没有隔膜 也没有胎盘。
In fact, our invention -- by "our" I mean we mammals -- one of our big inventions was the placenta.	事实上，我们的发明，--我们意思是我们哺乳动物- 我们的大发明之一就是胎盘。
But we also start out as aquatic organisms.	但我们也是从水中的有机体而来的。
But it turns out that this ancient structure that separates us from other animals, the placenta, cannot evolve or adapt fast enough because of the rate that we're generating new chemicals that it's never seen before.	但事实证明这个古老的结构- 把我们从其他动物分开的结构，胎盘－ 并不能进化或快速适应 我们生产新化学制品的速度－ 一个前所未有的速度。
The evidence of that is that studies in rats, again with atrazine, show that the hormone imbalance atrazine generates causes abortion.	老鼠身上再次用过阿特拉津的研究证据 显示荷尔蒙不平衡的阿特拉津，会导致流产。
Because maintaining a pregnancy is dependent on hormones.	因为维护怀孕是依靠荷尔蒙。
Of those rats that don't abort, atrazine causes prostate disease in the pups so the sons are born with an old man's disease.	当然老鼠不会流产， 阿特拉津引起幼崽 前列腺疾病 所以说小老鼠一出生就患有老年病。
Of those that don't abort, atrazine causes impaired mammary, or breast, development in the exposed daughters in utero, so that their breast don't develop properly.	对那些不流产的， 阿特拉津会导致不可恢复的乳房受损 在子宫内就遭到阿特拉津接触的女儿们， 她们的乳房不可能正常发育。
And as a result, when those rats grow up, their pups experience retarded growth and development because they can't make enough milk to nourish their pups.	结果是，这些老鼠成长时， 他们的幼崽会经历成长发育缓慢。 因为她们没有足够的奶水来喂养幼崽。
So the pup you see on the bottom is affected by atrazine that its grandmother was exposed to.	你们看到的最下面的小老鼠受的影响 源自它的祖母被暴露于阿特拉津。
And given the life of many of these chemicals, generations, years, dozens of years, that means that we right now are affecting the health of our grandchildren's grandchildren by things that we're putting into the environment today.	受这些化学制品影响的的生命， 一代代，一年年，成年累月， 可以说我们今天 会影响到我们孙子的孙子 那一代人的健康 通过现在投入到环境里的东西。
And this is not just philosophical, it's already known, that chemicals like diethylstilbestrol and estrogen, PCBs, DDT cross the placenta and effectively determine the likelihood of developing breast cancer and obesity and diabetes already when the baby's in the womb.	这并不只是哲理性的，已经众所周知， 化学制品，诸如己烯雌酚，雌激素， PCBs，DDT等 能够穿过胎盘 有效地决定 子宫内胎儿的乳腺癌的发展 以及肥胖和糖尿病 可能性。
In addition to that, after the baby's born, our other unique invention as mammals is that we nourish our offspring after they're born.	除此之外，婴儿出生后， 我们哺乳动物的另一个独特的发明 是我们要喂养出世的宝宝。
We already know that chemicals like DDT and DES and atrazine can also pass over into milk, again, affecting our babies even after their born.	我们都已知道化学制品 像DDT，DES和阿特拉津 都能透过容器进入奶水， 在宝宝出生后 还能影响他们。
P So when Tyrone tells me that the placenta is an ancient organ, I'm thinking, how do I demonstrate that?	PJC：所以当Tyrone告诉我， 胎盘是个古老的器官， 我就想怎么样来展示它呢？
How do you show that?	如何来表现呢？
And it's interesting when you make a film like this, because you're stuck trying to visualize science that there's no visualization for.	拍电影时有趣的是， 你一直在想用视觉来展示 无法视觉化的科学。
And I have to take a little bit of artistic license.	我只得借助一点艺术特权。
Old man: Placenta control.	老者：这里是胎盘指挥部。
What is it?	胎盘指挥部是什么？
Oh what?	什么？
Puffuffuff, what?	（打呼声） （按喇叭声） 全，全，全--什么？
Perflourooctanoic acid.	全氟辛酸。
Blimey.	啊呀。
Never heard of it.	没听说过。
P And neither had I actually before I started making this film.	PJC：我在开始拍这部影片的时候 也没听说过。
And so when you realize that chemicals can pass the placenta and go into your unborn child, it made me start to think, what would my fetus say to me?	当你意识到化学成分会穿过胎盘 进入你未出世的婴孩， 这让我开始思考， 我的胎儿要对我说什么？
What would our unborn children say to us when they have an exposure that's happening everyday, day after day?	当我们未出世的孩子们 每天都被暴露于化学品之中， 他们会对我们说什么？
Today, I had some octyphenols, some artificial musks and some bisphenol A.	小孩：今天， 我吃了些辛基酚， 吃了些人造麝香 和一些双酚A。
Help me.	救救我！
P It's a very profound notion to know that we as women are at the vanguard of this.	PJV：我们女人 是站在前沿， 知道这点有很深的意义。
This is our issue, because we collect these compounds our entire life and then we end up dumping it and dumping them into our unborn children.	这是我们的问题， 因为我们有毕生时间收集了这些化合物 最终把它们倒给 我们为未出世的孩子。
We are in effect polluting our children.	我们实际上 在污染我们的孩子。
And this was something that was really brought home to me a year ago when I found out I was pregnant and the first scan revealed that my baby had a birth defect associated with exposure to estrogenic chemicals in the womb and the second scan revealed no heartbeat.	这就是一年前发生在我身上的事。 我知道怀孕后 做的第一次扫描就显示 我的宝宝有先天性缺陷， 是与子宫里的 含雌性激素的化学成分有关。 第二次的扫描 宝宝没有心跳。
So my child's death, my baby's death, really brought home the resonance of what I was trying to make in this film.	我的孩子的死，我宝宝的死亡 真正引起我要拍这部电影的共鸣。
And it's sometimes a weird place when the communicator becomes part of the story, which is not what you originally intend.	有时很奇怪， 本来不在计划之中的传播者 却成了故事的一部分。
And so when Tyrone talks about the fetus being trapped in a contaminated environment, this is my contaminated environment.	当Tyrone讲 胎儿被困在受污染的环境里， 这个就是我的被污染了环境。
This is my toxic baby.	这是我的中了毒的宝宝。
And that's something that's just profound and sad, but astonishing because so many of us don't actually know this.	这件事 很深刻和令人伤心的 但令人吃惊的 是因为我们很多人还不知道。
TH: One of this things that's exciting and appropriate for me to be here at TEDWomen is that, well, I think it was summed up best last night at dinner when someone said, "Turn to the man at your table and tell them, 'When the revolution starts, we've got your back.'" The truth is, women, you've had our back on this issue for a very long time, starting with Rachel Carson's "Silent Spring" to Theo Colborn's "Our Stolen Future" to Sandra Steingraber's books "Living Downstream" and "Having Faith."	TH：能够来到TEDwomen对我 是很兴奋和合适的一件事， 昨天晚餐时有一位总结的很好， 他说：转身对你的邻座说 "当革命开始时，我们挺你。" 事实是，女士们， 在这个问题上我们已经支持了很久。 从Rachel Carson的《安静的春天》开始， 到Theo Colborn 的《失窃的未来》， 和Sandra Steingraber（桑德拉·斯坦格雷伯）的 《下游生活》和《相信》。
And perhaps it's the connection to our next generation -- like my wife and my beautiful daughter here about 13 years ago -- perhaps it's that connection that makes women activists in this particular area.	这也许是我们与下一代人的连系 就像13年前我太太和我漂亮的女儿， 也许这种连接 使更多的妇女活动家 投身到这个特殊的领域。
But for the men here, I want to say it's not just women and children that are at risk.	对这里的男士，我想说 并不只是妇女和孩子身处危险。
And the frogs that are exposed to atrazine, the testes are full of holes and spaces, because the hormone imbalance, instead of allowing sperm to be generated, such as in the testis here, the testicular tubules end up empty and fertility goes down by as much as 50 percent.	被暴露在阿特拉津的青蛙， 睾丸上布满洞和空隙， 由于荷尔蒙不平衡， 睾丸本来应该产生精子的， 这里的睾丸小管 却空空， 所以生育力跌落到50%。
It's not just my work in amphibians, but similar work has been shown in fish in Europe, holes in the testes and absence of sperm in reptiles in a group from South America and in rats, an absence of sperm in the testicular tubules as well.	并不只是两栖动物， 在欧洲我们看到鱼类， 在南美我们也发现爬行类和老鼠 都存在睾丸穿孔， 无精子的情况。
And of course, we don't do these experiments in humans, but just by coincidence, my colleague has shown that men who have low sperm count, low semen quality have significantly more atrazine in their urine.	当然，我们不在人身上做试验。 但巧的是， 我的同事发现 精子数量和质量都低下的男士的尿样里 含有较高的阿特拉津。
These are just men who live in an agricultural community.	这些男士都居住 在农业社区。
Men who actually work in agriculture have much higher levels of atrazine.	从事农业的男士 含有更高水平的阿特拉津。
And the men who actually apply atrazine have even more atrazine in their urine, up to levels that are 24,000 times what we know to be active are present in the urine of these men.	那些实际上喷洒阿特拉津的人， 尿液里的阿特拉津的含量 是我们能够测出的现有的人 的24000倍。
Of course, most of them, 90 percent are Mexican, Mexican-American.	当然，其中90%的是墨西哥人和墨西哥-美国人。
And it's not just atrazine they're exposed to.	他们并不只接触阿特拉津。
They're exposed to chemicals like chloropicrin, which was originally used as a nerve gas.	他们也接触本来用作神经毒气的化学制品 例如氯化苦。
And many of these workers have life expectancies of only 50.	这些工人很多 只能活到50岁。
It shouldn't come to any surprise that the things that happen in wildlife are also a warning to us, just like Rachel Carson and others have warned.	并不吃惊野生动物 也在警告我们， 就像雷切尔·卡森和别的科学家都已警告过一样。
As evident in this slide from Lake Nabugabo in Uganda, the agricultural runoff from this crop, which goes into these buckets, is the sole source of drinking, cooking and bathing water for this village.	这张幻灯片的证据来自乌干达的那布加波湖， 农作物的流出物 接进到这些水桶， 这是这个村的唯一水源，用来饮用，做饭和梳洗。
Now if I told the men in this village that the frogs have pour immune function and eggs developing in their testes, the connection between environmental health and public health would be clear.	如果我告诉这个村里的人， 青蛙有免疫功能问题， 它们的睾丸里长有卵子， 那么环境健康和公众健康的关系 就显而易见了。
You would not drink water that you knew was having this kind of impact on the wildlife that lived in it.	你不会去喝你知道会影响 野生动物的水。
The problem is, in my village, Oakland, in most of our villages, we don't see that connection.	问题是，在奥克兰我的村里， 在我们大多数的村子里 我们看不到这种关系。
We turn on the faucet, the water comes out, we assume it's safe, and we assume that we are masters of our environment, rather than being part of it.	我们打开水龙头，水就出来，我们就认为它是安全的。 我们自以为是环境的主人， 而不是当中的一部分。
P So it doesn't take much to realize that actually this is an environmental issue.	PJC：不难看出 这实际上是个环境问题。
And I kept thinking over and over again this question.	我曾反复思考 这个问题。
We know so much about global warming and climate change, and yet, we have no concept of what I've been calling internal environmentalism.	我们知道全球温暖化和气候变化 但我们对 我一直称呼的内部环境保护论一无所知。
We know what we're putting out there, we have a sense of those repercussions, but we are so ignorant of this sense of what happens when we put things, or things are put into our bodies.	我们很清楚我们在往外放什么东西， 我们也感觉到它们的影响， 我们却忽视这种感觉 但当我们往外放东西发生什么 或吃东西时。
And it's my feeling and it's my urging being here to know that, as we women move forward as the communicators of this, but also as the ones who carry that burden of carrying the children, bearing the children, we hold most of the buying power in the household, is that it's going to be us moving forward to carry the work of Tyrone and other scientists around the world.	我的感受 和我的迫切， 让我们妇女要出去 作为传达者， 我们也要负担 养育孩子的重担， 我们是家庭的主要力量， 所以我们也要再走出一步 去承担一些Tyrone和世界的其它科学家们所做的工作。
And my urging is that when we think about environmental issues that we remember that it's not just about melting glaciers and ice caps, but it's also about our children as well.	我的迫切要求是 当我们考虑环境问题的时候， 记住并不只是消融的冰川，冰冠， 也关乎我们的孩子。
Thank you.	谢谢大家！
The entire model of capitalism and the economic model that you and I did business in, and, in fact, continue to do business in, was built around what probably Milton Friedman put more succinctly.	资本主义运作的整个模式 以及你我过去和现在 以及你我过去和现在 做生意的经济模式， 是基于这样一个概念。 这个概念米尔顿·弗里德曼 可能说得更简洁，
And Adam Smith, of course, the father of modern economics actually said many, many years ago, the invisible hand, which is, "If you continue to operate in your own self-interest you will do the best good for society."	当然，亚当·斯密，现代经济学之父 在很多很多年前就说过， 也就是"无形的手"， 这是说，"如果每个人都 追求自身利益， 这有助于实现公共福祉。"
Now, capitalism has done a lot of good things and I've talked about a lot of good things that have happened, but equally, it has not been able to meet up with some of the challenges that we've seen in society.	现在，资本主义做了很多好事， 而且我也提到了很多发生过的好事， 但另一方面，它还是没有办法 解决我们社会中面临的一些 挑战。
The model that at least I was brought up in and a lot of us doing business were brought up in was one which talked about what I call the three G's of growth: growth that is consistent, quarter on quarter; growth that is competitive, better than the other person; and growth that is profitable, so you continue to make more and more shareholder value.	这个我和在座的大多数都熟悉的商业模式 这个我和在座的大多数都熟悉的商业模式 就是我提到过的 我称之为的"3G增长"模式： 可持续的增长， 一个季度接着一个季度； 有竞争力的增长， 做到比其他人都好； 以及有利可图的增长， 所以你持续地创造 股东价值。
And I'm afraid this is not going to be good enough and we have to move from this 3G model to a model of what I call the fourth G: the G of growth that is responsible.	但是我不得不说只做到这些已经不够了， 我们需要从这个3G模式 转变到一个我称之为的 4G模式： 一种负责任的增长。
And it is this that has to become a very important part of creating value.	而且这必须是创造价值过程中 一个非常重要的 组成部分。
Of not just creating economic value but creating social value.	也就是不仅要创造经济价值 也要有社会价值。
And companies that will thrive are those that will actually embrace the fourth G.	那些真正会变强大的公司会是 那些真正做到第四个G的。
And the model of 4G is quite simple: Companies cannot afford to be just innocent bystanders in what's happening around in society.	而且这个4G模式其实非常简单： 公司不能再充当无辜的旁观者 而无视社会上正在发生的一切。
They have to begin to play their role in terms of serving the communities which actually sustain them.	他们需要开始负起自己的责任 来服务社区 － 那些真正支撑他们的人们。
And we have to move to a model of an and/and model which is how do we make money and do good?	而且我们需要转变到 一个双赢的模式，一个 我们如何又赚钱又做好事的模式？
How do we make sure that we have a great business but we also have a great environment around us?	我们如何才能保证 我们的生意兴隆 但同时我们也共同营造一个良好的环境呢？
And that model is all about doing well and doing good.	而那个模式 就是关于如果能够做强做好。
But the question is easier said than done.	但是问题说起来容易做起来难。
But how do we actually get that done?	我们怎么才能做到这一点呢？
And I do believe that the answer to that is going to be leadership.	我坚信 这个问题的答案就是领导力。
It is going to be to redefine the new business models which understand that the only license to operate is to combine these things.	它要重新定义 新的商业模式， 这个模式强调 要想从事商业运营， 就必须把这些方面结合起来。
And for that you need businesses that can actually define their role in society in terms of a much larger purpose than the products and brands that they sell.	也就是你需要那些可以 真正定义自己的社会角色 的公司， 它们能从更大的社会使命角度考虑， 而不仅是从自身的产品和品牌出发。
And companies that actually define a true north, things that are nonnegotiable whether times are good, bad, ugly -- doesn't matter.	那些能够找到自身方向的公司， 有着容不得商量的事情， 不管世道如何变化－ 都不会改变的一些东西。
There are things that you stand for.	你坚信着一些事情。
Values and purpose are going to be the two drivers of software that are going to create the companies of tomorrow.	价值和目标会是 两个软驱动， 它们会创造出 未来的公司。
And I'm going to now shift to talking a little bit about my own experiences.	我现在来 谈谈我自身的一些体验。
I joined Unilever in 1976 as a management trainee in India.	1976年，我作为一个管理培训生 加入了联合利华在印度的分部。
And on my first day of work I walked in and my boss tells me, "Do you know why you're here?"	我上班第一天 我的主管告诉我， "你知道你为什么在这里吗？"
I said, "I'm here to sell a lot of soap."	我说，"我来这里卖很多的肥皂。"
And he said, "No, you're here to change lives."	然后他说，"不，你是来改变生活的。"
You're here to change lives.	你是来改变生活的。
You know, I thought it was rather facetious.	你知道，我当时认为这太扯了。
We are a company that sells soap and soup.	我们是个卖肥皂和汤的公司。
What are we doing about changing lives?	我们怎么能改变生活？
And it's then I realized that simple acts like selling a bar of soap can save more lives than pharmaceutical companies.	但就是那时我认识到了 简单的举动 比如卖一块肥皂 可以比制药公司 拯救更多的生命。
I don't know how many of you know that five million children don't reach the age of five because of simple infections that can be prevented by an act of washing their hands with soap.	我不知道在座有多少人知道 五百万孩子活不过5岁 只因为简单的感染，而那些感染 通过用肥皂洗手就可以预防。
We run the largest hand-washing program in the world.	我们发起了 全世界最大的 "洗手" 项目。
We are running a program on hygiene and health that now touches half a billion people.	我们也在运营着一个关于卫生与健康的项目， 目前已经影响了5亿人。
It's not about selling soap, there is a larger purpose out there.	这不仅仅是卖肥皂， 我们有一个更大的目标。
And brands indeed can be at the forefront of social change.	而品牌真的可以 处在社会变革的最前沿。
And the reason for that is, when two billion people use your brands that's the amplifier.	原因是， 当有20亿人用你的品牌时， 那就是很好的品牌效应。
Small actions can make a big difference.	小举动可以产生大变化。
Take another example, I was walking around in one of our villages in India.	再举一个例子， 我在印度的一个村子里走着。
Now those of you who have done this will realize that this is no walk in the park.	你们中有过这样经历的 会知道这可不像是在公园里散步。
And we had this lady who was one of our small distributors -- beautiful, very, very modest, her home -- and she was out there, dressed nicely, her husband in the back, her mother-in-law behind and her sister-in-law behind her.	我们有一位女士 曾经是我们的一个小的经销商 － 她很漂亮，很谦虚，她的家 － 而她就站在外面， 穿着非常得体， 她的丈夫在她身后，然后是她的婆婆以及 她的小姑子。
The social order was changing because this lady is part of our Project Shakti that is actually teaching women how to do small business and how to carry the message of nutrition and hygiene.	社会秩序正在改变 因为这位女士 是我们沙克蒂项目的参与者。 这个项目教妇女 如何做小生意 以及如何传播普及 卫生与健康知识。
We have 60,000 such women now in India.	现在我们有6万这样的妇女 在印度。
It's not about selling soap, it's about making sure that in the process of doing so you can change people's lives.	这不是关于卖肥皂， 这是关于确保 在这个过程中 你可以改变其他人的生活。
Small actions, big difference.	小举动，大改变。
Our R&amp;D folks are not only working to give us some fantastic detergents, but they're working to make sure we use less water.	我们的研发团队 不仅仅是为了创造美妙的洗涤剂， 而是为了保证我们可以少用水。
A product that we've just launched recently, One Rinse product that allows you to save water every time you wash your clothes.	我们最近开发的一个清洗产品， 它可以在你每次洗衣服的时候 节约用水。
And if we can convert all our users to using this, that's 500 billion liters of water.	如果我们可以让我们所有的用户都使用这个产品， 那就是五千亿升的水啊。
By the way, that's equivalent to one month of water for a whole huge continent.	顺便说一句，这相当于一整个大陆 一个月的用水量。
So just think about it.	大家想想看吧。
There are small actions that can make a big difference.	小举动可以产生巨大的变化。
And I can go on and on.	我还可以举很多例子。
Our food chain, our brilliant products -- and I'm sorry I'm giving you a word from the sponsors -- Knorr, Hellman's and all those wonderful products.	我们的食品供应链， 我们的伟大的产品－ 不好意思给大家插播一下广告－ 家乐牌、家乐以及这些很棒的产品们。
We are committed to making sure that all our agricultural raw materials are sourced from sustainable sources, 100-percent sustainable sources.	我们致力于确保 我们所有的农业原材料 都来自可持续发展的环境， 百分之百。
We were the first to say we are going to buy all of our palm oil from sustainable sources.	我们是最早 宣布要从可持续的环境中采购 我们所有的棕榈油的。
I don't know how many of you know that palm oil, and not buying it from sustainable sources, can create deforestation that is responsible for 20 percent of the greenhouse gasses in the world.	不知道有多少人了解 不从可持续的环境中获取棕榈油， 会造成森林的过度砍伐从而产生 全球20％的温室气体。
We were the first to embrace that, and it's all because we market soap and soup.	我们是第一家做出改变的公司， 这都是因为我们卖肥皂和汤。
And the point I'm making here is that companies like yours, companies like mine have to define a purpose which embraces responsibility and understands that we have to play our part in the communities in which we operate.	我的意思是说 像你我的公司 必须要确定一个目标， 这个目标要负有责任感 同时明白我们需要 在我们所处的社会里起到一定作用。
We introduced something called The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, which said, "Our purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace, and we are gong to change the lives of one billion people over 2020."	我们提出了一个叫做 联合利华可持续生活计划， "我们的目标是创造一个可持续生活的共同家园， 我们要在2020年改变10亿人的 生活状态。"
Now the question here is, where do we go from here?	现在的问题是， 我们要怎么做到这点呢？
And the answer to that is very simple: We're not going to change the world alone.	答案很简单： 我们不能仅靠一己之力来改变世界。
There are plenty of you and plenty of us who understand this.	有很有的你和我 明白这一点。
The question is, we need partnerships, we need coalitions and importantly, we need that leadership that will allow us to take this from here and to be the change that we want to see around us.	问题是， 我们需要合作，我们需要联盟， 非常重要的是，我们需要一种领导力， 它可以带领我们 一起改变世界 并从改变我们自己做起。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢大家。
I was in New York during Hurricane Sandy, and this little white dog called Maui was staying with me.	当飓风桑迪来袭时，我正在纽约 和一只名叫毛伊的小白狗 待在一起
Half the city was dark because of a power cut, and I was living on the dark side.	由于停电，半个城市处于黑暗中 我当时就在黑暗的这一边
Now, Maui was terrified of the dark, so I had to carry him up the stairs, actually down the stairs first, for his walk, and then bring him back up.	毛伊非常怕黑 我只好把它抱上楼 实际上是先带下楼去遛 再把它抱回来
I was also hauling gallons of bottles of water up to the seventh floor every day.	我每天还要将数加仑的瓶装水 艰难地拖到七楼
And through all of this, I had to hold a torch between my teeth.	而且同时 我还得牙咬着手电照明。
The stores nearby were out of flashlights and batteries and bread.	附近商店里的手电筒，电池 和面包早已售罄
For a shower, I walked 40 blocks to a branch of my gym.	为了洗个澡，我得走40个路口 到一个健身中心去。
But these were not the major preoccupations of my day.	但这些并不是我一天中最重要的任务
It was just as critical for me to be the first person in at a cafe nearby with extension cords and chargers to juice my multiple devices.	对我来说同样重要的还有能否第一个 带上充电线到附近的一家咖啡馆 给我的多个设备充电。
I started to prospect under the benches of bakeries and the entrances of pastry shops for plug points.	我开始寻找面包店长椅下 和糕点店入口处的那些插座
I wasn't the only one.	我并不是唯一一个
Even in the rain, people stood between Madison and 5th Avenue under their umbrellas charging their cell phones from outlets on the street.	即使下着雨，也有人打着雨伞站在 麦迪逊和第五大道之间的街边插座旁 等着自己的手机充电
Nature had just reminded us that it was stronger than all our technology, and yet here we were, obsessed about being wired.	大自然提醒着我们 它比所有的技术来的强大 但我们仍然沉迷于上网。
I think there's nothing like a crisis to tell you what's really important and what's not, and Sandy made me realize that our devices and their connectivity matter to us right up there with food and shelter.	我认为没有什么能够比一场危机 更能告诉你事物的轻重缓急 飓风桑迪使我认识到我们的电子设备 及其通讯功能对我的重要程度 就如食物和住所一般
The self as we once knew it no longer exists, and I think that an abstract, digital universe has become a part of our identity, and I want to talk to you about what I think that means.	我们所熟知的一部分自己已经不复存在 而一个抽象的数字的世界 已经成为了我们身份的一部分 我想谈谈这意味着什么
I'm a novelist, and I'm interested in the self because the self and fiction have a lot in common.	我是一个小说家，我对关于"自我"的话题感兴趣 因为"自我"和小说有很多共同点
They're both stories, interpretations.	他们都属于一种故事和诠释
You and I can experience things without a story.	你和我可以不通过故事体验事情
We might run up the stairs too quickly and we might get breathless.	我们可能爬楼梯爬得太快 我们可能呼吸困难
But the larger sense that we have of our lives, the slightly more abstract one, is indirect.	但我们越是深入地感受我们的生活 就越是感受到其抽象和不直接
Our story of our life is based on direct experience, but it's embellished.	我们关于生活的故事都来自于经历 但是修饰过的
A novel needs scene after scene to build, and the story of our life needs an arc as well.	小说需要一个接一个的场景来完成 我们生活的故事同样需要一道时间跨度
It needs months and years.	需要数月甚至数年的
Discrete moments from our lives are its chapters.	独立生活场景来组成一个个章节
But the story is not about these chapters.	但故事并不是仅仅是这些章节
It's the whole book.	而是整整一本书
It's not only about the heartbreak and the happiness, the victories and the disappointments, but it's because how because of these, and sometimes, more importantly, in spite of these, we find our place in the world and we change it and we change ourselves.	不仅仅是伤心和愉悦 也不仅仅是胜利和失望 而是所有的前因后果 有时候，也许更加重要的是，尽管有此种种 我们寻找自己在世界中的位置 然后改变这个位置，改变自我
Our story, therefore, needs two dimensions of time: a long arc of time that is our lifespan, and the timeframe of direct experience that is the moment.	我们的故事，因此，需要一个二维的时间轴： 一个是我们整个的生命 以及另一个就是直接经历的时间片段 便是某个时刻
Now the self that experiences directly can only exist in the moment, but the one that narrates needs several moments, a whole sequence of them, and that's why our full sense of self needs both immersive experience and the flow of time.	现在直接经历的那个"自我" 只存在于某个时刻 但一个故事需要多个时刻组成 多个有序的时刻 这就是为何完整的"自我"认识 同时包括深入地体验 和时间的流逝
Now, the flow of time is embedded in everything, in the erosion of a grain of sand, in the budding of a little bud into a rose.	时间的流逝镌刻于每一件事情中 无论是一粒沙尘的消逝 还是一朵玫瑰的缓缓绽放
Without it, we would have no music.	没有时间的流逝，我们无法获得音乐
Our own emotions and state of mind often encode time, regret or nostalgia about the past, hope or dread about the future.	我们自己的情绪和意识 往往同时间紧密相连 无论是对过去的悔恨或怀念 或是对未来的希望和担心
I think that technology has altered that flow of time.	我认为科技已经改变的时间的流逝
The overall time that we have for our narrative, our lifespan, has been increasing, but the smallest measure, the moment, has shrunk.	我们人生中用在叙事上的时间 增加了 但时间的片段和瞬间，却简短了
It has shrunk because our instruments enable us in part to measure smaller and smaller units of time, and this in turn has given us a more granular understanding of the material world, and this granular understanding has generated reams of data that our brains can no longer comprehend and for which we need more and more complicated computers.	因为我们的设备让我们 能够度量越来越小的时间片段 这反过来又给了我们一个更细粒度的理解 物质世界 这种细粒度的理解 产生了大量的数据 我们的大脑不能处理了 这就导致我们需要越来越复杂的电脑。
All of this to say that the gap between what we can perceive and what we can measure is only going to widen.	这一切就是说明 我们可以理解世界的和我们可以度量的世界之间的鸿沟 越来越大了。
Science can do things with and in a picosecond, but you and I are never going to have the inner experience of a millionth of a millionth of a second.	科技可以实现在皮秒下完成工作， 可是你我却没有可能感受到 百万分之百万分之一秒。
You and I answer only to nature's rhythm and flow, to the sun, the moon and the seasons, and this is why we need that long arc of time with the past, the present and the future to see things for what they are, to separate signal from noise and the self from sensations.	你我，只能感受到自然的变化节奏， 太阳，月亮，季节 这需要很长的时间跨度 包括过去，现在和未来 分清事物， 从噪声中剥离出信号 从感觉中辨析"自我"。
We need time's arrow to understand cause and effect, not just in the material world, but in our own intentions and our motivations.	我们需要时间箭头的方向辨析因果， 不仅在物质世界里， 还在我们自己的内在世界。
What happens when that arrow goes awry?	时间箭头的方向出错了会如何？
What happens when time warps?	时间扭曲了会如何？
So many of us today have the sensation that time's arrow is pointing everywhere and nowhere at once.	我们现今有许多感觉 时间箭头指向了所有方向 同时又没有指向任何方向。
This is because time doesn't flow in the digital world in the same way that it does in the natural one.	这是因为数字世界中时间 不会像在现实世界中一样流淌。
We all know that the Internet has shrunk space as well as time.	我们知道互联网拉近了空间 和时间。
Far away over there is now here.	遥远的地方就在身边。
News from India is a stream on my smartphone app whether I'm in New York or New Delhi.	来自印度的消息流入我的智能手机应用程序 不管我在纽约还是在新德里。
And that's not all.	这还不是全部。
Your last job, your dinner reservations from last year, your former friends, lie on a flat plain with today's friends, because the Internet also archives, and it warps the past.	你上一份工作，你去年的订餐记录， 你以前的朋友，和现如今的朋友并排在一个屏幕上， 因为互联网会存档， 它扭曲了过去。
With no distinction left between the past, the present and the future, and the here or there, we are left with this moment everywhere, this moment that I'll call the digital now.	没法区分过去， 现在和未来，此处和彼处， 我们这一刻无处不在， 这一刻，我称之为"数字当下"
Just how can we prioritize in the landscape of the digital now?	我们如何在"数字当下"中 区分优先级呢？
This digital now is not the present, because it's always a few seconds ahead, with Twitter streams that are already trending and news from other time zones.	"数字当下"不是现在， 因为它总是超前几秒， 推特推送了来自 其它时区的新闻。
This isn't the now of a shooting pain in your foot or the second that you bite into a pastry or the three hours that you lose yourself in a great book.	"数字当下"不再是现在，有切肤之感、 或者品味糕点的时刻、 或者是三个小时流连于好书中间。
This now bears very little physical or psychological reference to our own state.	"数字当下"很少参照我们自身 生理或心理的状态。
Its focus, instead, is to distract us at every turn on the road.	"数字当下"使我们 在每个路口分心。
Every digital landmark is an invitation to leave what you are doing now to go somewhere else and do something else.	每个数字路标都是一个岔路 会使我们到其它地方去 做其它事。
Are you reading an interview by an author?	你在阅读作者的专访吗?
Why not buy his book? Tweet it. Share it.	为什么不买他的书？推特上转发它，共享它。
Like it. Find other books exactly like his.	顶它。找类似的图书。
Find other people reading those books.	找那些正在阅读此类书的读者。
Travel can be liberating, but when it is incessant, we become permanent exiles without repose.	旅行是自由的， 但当它变得不停不歇， 我们就变成了永久的流亡者，没有些许喘息。
Choice is freedom, but not when it's constantly for its own sake.	选择是自由的，但无时无刻的选择就 不是自由了。
Not just is the digital now far from the present, but it's in direct competition with it, and this is because not just am I absent from it, but so are you.	"数字当下"不仅远离现在， 而且它也在于现在竞争， 这不仅仅是因为我脱离了现在， 而且你们也是。
Not just are we absent from it, but so is everyone else.	不仅是因为我们脱离了现在，每个其他人都是。
And therein lies its greatest convenience and horror.	这就是最大的便利和恐怖所在
I can order foreign language books in the middle of the night, shop for Parisian macarons, and leave video messages that get picked up later.	我可以在午夜订外文书， 买巴黎的法国小圆饼， 留视频信息，稍后接收。
At all times, I can operate at a different rhythm and pace from you, while I sustain the illusion that I'm tapped into you in real time.	在任何时候,我可以 以与你不同的节奏和速度操作， 当我还沉浸在这样 与你们实时互动的幻境中的时候。
Sandy was a reminder of how such an illusion can shatter.	桑迪飓风提醒了我们 幻境可以被粉碎。
There were those with power and water, and those without.	居所分为有水有电的 和没有的。
There are those who went back to their lives, and those who are still displaced after so many months.	有些人回到他们的生活， 经过许多个月 还有些人仍然无法上网。
For some reason, technology seems to perpetuate the illusion for those who have it that everyone does, and then, like an ironic slap in the face, it makes it true.	出于某种原因,技术似乎给我们一种 每个人都拥有一样条件的幻觉， 然后，一个讽刺的耳光， 它现出原形。
For example, it's said that there are more people in India with access to cell phones than toilets.	例如：据说在印度 有手机的人比有抽水马桶的人多。
Now if this rift, which is already so great in many parts of the world, between the lack of infrastructure and the spread of technology, isn't somehow bridged, there will be ruptures between the digital and the real.	这样的鸿沟，已经如此巨大 在世界很多地方， 那里往往缺少基础设施， 但技术进步的脚步已经捷足先登。 但假如这两者之间的鸿沟不被连接的话， 将会带来巨大的断层。
For us as individuals who live in the digital now and spend most of our waking moments in it, the challenge is to live in two streams of time that are parallel and almost simultaneous.	对于我们那些醒着的时间 生活在"数字当下"中的人， 挑战在于生活在 两个并行同时存在的时间流中。
How does one live inside distraction?	一个人如何生活在分心中?
We might think that those younger than us, those who are born into this, will adapt more naturally.	我们也许会想年轻人会比我们好些， 他们出生于数字时代，会自然的适应。
Possibly, but I remember my childhood.	也许，但是我记起了我的童年。
I remember my grandfather revising the capitals of the world with me.	我记得我祖父告诉我 世界各地的首都。
Buda and Pest were separated by the Danube, and Vienna had a Spanish riding school.	布达和佩斯是被多瑙河分割开的， 维也纳有个西班牙马术学校。
If I were a child today, I could easily learn this information with apps and hyperlinks, but it really wouldn't be the same, because much later, I went to Vienna, and I went to the Spanish riding school, and I could feel my grandfather right beside me.	如果我是当下的小孩子，我会很快知道这些信息 利用互联网， 但体验绝不会是相同的， 因为，多年后，去维也纳， 我去了那间西班牙马术学校， 我感觉我祖父就在我身边。
Night after night, he took me up on the terrace, on his shoulders, and pointed out Jupiter and Saturn and the Great Bear to me.	夜复一夜，他带我到阳台上， 在他的肩膀上，指点我木星 土星和大熊星座。
And even here, when I look at the Great Bear, I get back that feeling of being a child, hanging onto his head and trying to balance myself on his shoulder, and I can get back that feeling of being a child again.	即使在这里，当我看到大熊星座时， 我会回想起小时候， 在他头顶上，努力 在他肩膀上保持平衡， 我能再次回想到小时候。
What I had with my grandfather was wrapped so often in information and knowledge and fact, but it was about so much more than information or knowledge or fact.	我和我的祖父的过往 夹杂着信息和知识和事实， 但这些意味着更多 超越信息和知识和事实。
Time-warping technology challenges our deepest core, because we are able to archive the past and some of it becomes hard to forget, even as the current moment is increasingly unmemorable.	时间扭曲技术 挑战我们最深层的内核， 因为我们可以记录过去 有些东西变得难以忘却， 即使在当下 越来越不容易记住。
We want to clutch, and we are left instead clutching at a series of static moments.	我们希望抓住关键时刻，取而代之我们希望抓住关键时刻的 变成了一串静止时刻。
They're like soap bubbles that disappear when we touch them.	它们象肥皂泡，我们一触即破。
By archiving everything, we think that we can store it, but time is not data.	通过存档，我们认为我们可以保存有一切， 但时间不是数据。
It cannot be stored.	它不能被保存。
You and I know exactly what it means like to be truly present in a moment.	你和我知道这意味着什么 确实的在某一时刻。
It might have happened while we were playing an instrument, or looking into the eyes of someone we've known for a very long time.	它可能发生在 我们演奏乐器时， 或者注视一个我们熟知人的 眼睛时。
At such moments, our selves are complete.	在这些时刻，我们自己是完整的。
The self that lives in the long narrative arc and the self that experiences the moment become one.	"自我"生活在漫长的情节 "自我"体验的时刻， 成为自我。
The present encapsulates the past and a promise for the future.	当下包含过去， 是对未来的一个承诺。
The present joins a flow of time from before and after.	当下汇聚流失的时间 从过去和之后。
I first experienced these feelings with my grandmother.	我第一次体验到它是和我的祖母。
I wanted to learn to skip, and she found an old rope and she tucked up her sari and she jumped over it.	我想学会跳绳,她找出一条老绳 把纱丽扎起来 然后跳了过去。
I wanted to learn to cook, and she kept me in the kitchen, cutting, cubing and chopping for a whole month.	我想学做菜，她就和我 在厨房里切了一个月的菜。
My grandmother taught me that things happen in the time they take, that time can't be fought, and because it will pass and it will move, we owe the present moment our full attention.	我的祖母教会了我事情发生在 它们占用的时间上， 时间不可战胜， 因为时间是时不我待的， 我们拥有现在用我们的注意力
Attention is time.	注意力、关心就是时间。
One of my yoga instructors once said that love is attention, and definitely from my grandmother, love and attention were one and the same thing.	我的一位瑜伽老师曾说过 爱就是关注， 确实从我祖母那里我学到 爱便等同于关注。
The digital world cannibalizes time, and in doing so, I want to suggest that what it threatens is the completeness of ourselves.	数字世界吞噬时间， 有鉴于此，我建议 数字世界 威胁的是我们自身的完整性。
It threatens the flow of love.	它威胁到爱的流淌。
But we don't need to let it.	不过我们可以不让它发生。
We can choose otherwise.	我们可以选择。
We've seen again and again just how creative technology can be, and in our lives and in our actions, we can choose those solutions and those innovations and those moments that restore the flow of time instead of fragmenting it.	我们已经看了许多遍 创新技术的能耐， 在我们的生活中和行为中， 我们可以选择这些创新 同时这些时刻我们可以记下时间流淌 而不是存储时间碎片。
We can slow down and we can tune in to the ebb and flow of time.	我们可以慢放，我们可以对焦 时间的流淌和潮汐
We can choose to take time back.	我们可以选择夺回"时间"
Thank you.	谢谢！
When I was nine years old I went off to summer camp for the first time.	当我九岁的时候 我第一次去参加夏令营
And my mother packed me a suitcase full of books, which to me seemed like a perfectly natural thing to do.	我妈妈帮我整理好了我的行李箱 里面塞满了书 这对于我来说是一件极为自然的事情
Because in my family, reading was the primary group activity.	因为在我的家庭里 阅读是主要的家庭活动
And this might sound antisocial to you, but for us it was really just a different way of being social.	听上去你们可能觉得我们是不爱交际的 但是对于我的家庭来说这真的只是接触社会的另一种途径
You have the animal warmth of your family sitting right next to you, but you are also free to go roaming around the adventureland inside your own mind.	你们有自己家庭接触时的温暖亲情 家人静坐在你身边 但是你也可以自由地漫游 在你思维深处的冒险乐园里
And I had this idea that camp was going to be just like this, but better.	我有一个想法 野营会变得像这样子，当然要更好些
I had a vision of 10 girls sitting in a cabin cozily reading books in their matching nightgowns.	我想象到十个女孩坐在一个小屋里 都穿着合身的女式睡衣惬意地享受着读书的过程
Camp was more like a keg party without any alcohol.	野营这时更像是一个不提供酒水的派对聚会
And on the very first day our counselor gathered us all together and she taught us a cheer that she said we would be doing every day for the rest of the summer to instill camp spirit.	在第一天的时候呢 我们的顾问把我们都集合在一起 并且她教会了我们一种今后要用到的庆祝方式 在余下夏令营的每一天中 让"露营精神"浸润我们
And it went like this: "R-O-W-D-I-E, that's the way we spell rowdie.	之后它就像这样继续着 R-O-W-D-I-E 这是我们拼写"吵闹"的口号
Rowdie, rowdie, let's get rowdie."	我们唱着"噪音，喧闹，我们要变得吵一点"
Yeah.	对，就是这样
So I couldn't figure out for the life of me why we were supposed to be so rowdy, or why we had to spell this word incorrectly.	可我就是弄不明白我的生活会是什么样的 为什么我们变得这么吵闹粗暴 或者为什么我们非要把这个单词错误地拼写
But I recited a cheer. I recited a cheer along with everybody else.	但是我可没有忘记庆祝。我与每个人都互相欢呼庆祝了
I did my best.	我尽了我最大的努力
And I just waited for the time that I could go off and read my books.	我只是想等待那一刻 我可以离开吵闹的聚会去捧起我挚爱的书
But the first time that I took my book out of my suitcase, the coolest girl in the bunk came up to me and she asked me, "Why are you being so mellow?" -- mellow, of course, being the exact opposite of R-O-W-D-I-E.	但是当我第一次把书从行李箱中拿出来的时候 床铺中最酷的那个女孩向我走了过来 并且她问我："为什么你要这么安静？" 安静，当然，是R-O-W-D-I-E的反义词 "喧闹"的反义词
And then the second time I tried it, the counselor came up to me with a concerned expression on her face and she repeated the point about camp spirit and said we should all work very hard to be outgoing.	而当我第二次拿书的时候 我们的顾问满脸忧虑的向我走了过来 接着她重复了关于"露营精神"的要点 并且说我们都应当努力 去变得外向些
And so I put my books away, back in their suitcase, and I put them under my bed, and there they stayed for the rest of the summer.	于是我放好我的书 放回了属于它们的行李箱中 并且我把它们放到了床底下 在那里它们度过了暑假余下的每一天
And I felt kind of guilty about this.	我对这样做感到很愧疚
I felt as if the books needed me somehow, and they were calling out to me and I was forsaking them.	不知为什么我感觉这些书是需要我的 它们在呼唤我，但是我却放弃了它们
But I did forsake them and I didn't open that suitcase again until I was back home with my family at the end of the summer.	我确实放下了它们，并且我再也没有打开那个箱子 直到我和我的家人一起回到家中 在夏末的时候
Now, I tell you this story about summer camp.	现在，我向你们讲述这个夏令营的故事
I could have told you 50 others just like it -- all the times that I got the message that somehow my quiet and introverted style of being was not necessarily the right way to go, that I should be trying to pass as more of an extrovert.	我完全可以给你们讲出其他50种版本就像这个一样的故事-- 每当我感觉到这样的时候 它告诉我出于某种原因，我的宁静和内向的风格 并不是正确道路上的必需品 我应该更多地尝试一个外向者的角色
And I always sensed deep down that this was wrong and that introverts were pretty excellent just as they were.	而在我内心深处感觉得到，这是错误的 内向的人们都是非常优秀的，确实是这样
But for years I denied this intuition, and so I became a Wall Street lawyer, of all things, instead of the writer that I had always longed to be -- partly because I needed to prove to myself that I could be bold and assertive too.	但是许多年来我都否认了这种直觉 于是我首先成为了华尔街的一名律师 而不是我长久以来想要成为的一名作家 一部分原因是因为我想要证明自己 也可以变得勇敢而坚定
And I was always going off to crowded bars when I really would have preferred to just have a nice dinner with friends.	并且我总是去那些拥挤的酒吧 当我只是想要和朋友们吃一顿愉快的晚餐时
And I made these self-negating choices so reflexively, that I wasn't even aware that I was making them.	我做出了这些自我否认的抉择 如条件反射一般 甚至我都不清楚我做出了这些决定
Now this is what many introverts do, and it's our loss for sure, but it is also our colleagues' loss and our communities' loss.	这就是很多内向的人正在做的事情 这当然是我们的损失 但这同样也是同事们的损失 我们所在团队集体的损失
And at the risk of sounding grandiose, it is the world's loss.	当然，冒着被指为夸大其词的风险我想说，更是世界的损失
Because when it comes to creativity and to leadership, we need introverts doing what they do best.	因为当涉及创造和领导的时候 我们需要内向的人做到最好
A third to a half of the population are introverts -- a third to a half.	三分之一到二分之一的人都是内向的-- 三分之一到二分之一
So that's one out of every two or three people you know.	你要知道这可意味着每两到三个人中就有一个内向的
So even if you're an extrovert yourself, I'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting next to you right now -- all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep and real in our society.	所以即使你自己是一个外向的人 我正在说你的同事 和你的配偶和你的孩子 还有现在正坐在你旁边的那个家伙-- 他们都要屈从于这样的偏见 一种在我们的社会中已经扎根的现实偏见
We all internalize it from a very early age without even having a language for what we're doing.	我们从很小的时候就把它藏在内心最深处 甚至都不说几句话，关于我们正在做的事情
Now to see the bias clearly you need to understand what introversion is.	现在让我们来清楚地看待这种偏见 我们需要真正了解"内向"到底指什么
It's different from being shy.	它和害羞是不同的
Shyness is about fear of social judgment.	害羞是对于社会评论的恐惧
Introversion is more about, how do you respond to stimulation, including social stimulation.	内向更多的是 你怎样对于刺激作出回应 包括来自社会的刺激
So extroverts really crave large amounts of stimulation, whereas introverts feel at their most alive and their most switched-on and their most capable when they're in quieter, more low-key environments.	其实内向的人是很渴求大量的鼓舞和激励的 反之内向者最感觉到他们的存在 这是他们精力最充足的时候，最具有能力的时候 当他们存在于更安静的，更低调的环境中
Not all the time -- these things aren't absolute -- but a lot of the time.	并不是所有时候--这些事情都不是绝对的-- 但是存在于很多时候
So the key then to maximizing our talents is for us all to put ourselves in the zone of stimulation that is right for us.	所以说，关键在于 把我们的天赋发挥到最大化 这对于我们来说就足够把我们自己 放到对于我们正确又合适的激励的区域中去
But now here's where the bias comes in.	但是现在偏见出现了
Our most important institutions, our schools and our workplaces, they are designed mostly for extroverts and for extroverts' need for lots of stimulation.	我们最重要的那些体系 我们的学校和工作单位 它们都是为性格外向者设计的 并且有适合他们需要的刺激和鼓励
And also we have this belief system right now that I call the new groupthink, which holds that all creativity and all productivity comes from a very oddly gregarious place.	当然我们现在也有这样一种信用机制 我称它为新型的"团队思考" 这是一种包含所有创造力和生产力的思考方式 从一个社交非常零散的地方产生的
So if you picture the typical classroom nowadays: When I was going to school, we sat in rows.	当你描绘今天典型教室的图案时 当我还上学的时候 我们一排排地坐着
We sat in rows of desks like this, and we did most of our work pretty autonomously.	我们靠着桌子一排排坐着就像这样 并且我们大多数工作都是自觉完成的
But nowadays, your typical classroom has pods of desks -- four or five or six or seven kids all facing each other.	但是在现代社会，所谓典型的教室 是些圈起来并排的桌子-- 四个或是五个或是六、七个孩子坐在一起，面对面
And kids are working in countless group assignments.	孩子们要完成无数个小组任务
Even in subjects like math and creative writing, which you think would depend on solo flights of thought, kids are now expected to act as committee members.	甚至像数学和创意写作这些课程 这些你们认为需要依靠个人闪光想法的课程 孩子们现在却被期待成为小组会的成员
And for the kids who prefer to go off by themselves or just to work alone, those kids are seen as outliers often or, worse, as problem cases.	对于那些喜欢 独处，或者自己一个人工作的孩子来说 这些孩子常常被视为局外人 或者更糟，被视为问题孩子
And the vast majority of teachers reports believing that the ideal student is an extrovert as opposed to an introvert, even though introverts actually get better grades and are more knowledgeable, according to research.	并且很大一部分老师的报告中都相信 最理想的学生应该是外向的 相对于内向的学生而言 甚至说外向的学生能够取得更好的成绩 更加博学多识 据研究报道
Okay, same thing is true in our workplaces.	好了。同样的事情也发生在我们工作的地方
Now, most of us work in open plan offices, without walls, where we are subject to the constant noise and gaze of our coworkers.	现在呢，我们中的绝大多数都工作在宽阔没有隔间的办公室里 甚至没有墙 在这里，我们暴露 在不断的噪音和我们同事的凝视目光下工作
And when it comes to leadership, introverts are routinely passed over for leadership positions, even though introverts tend to be very careful, much less likely to take outsize risks -- which is something we might all favor nowadays.	而当谈及领袖气质的时候 内向的人总是按照惯例从领导的位置被忽视了 尽管内向的人是非常小心仔细的 很少去冒特大的风险-- 这些风险是今天我们可能都喜欢的
And interesting research by Adam Grant at the Wharton School has found that introverted leaders often deliver better outcomes than extroverts do, because when they are managing proactive employees, they're much more likely to let those employees run with their ideas, whereas an extrovert can, quite unwittingly, get so excited about things that they're putting their own stamp on things, and other people's ideas might not as easily then bubble up to the surface.	宾夕法尼亚大学沃顿商学院的亚当·格兰特教授做了一项很有意思的研究 这项研究表明内向的领导们 相对于外向领导而言总是会生产更大的效益 因为当他们管理主动积极的雇员的时候 他们更倾向于让有主见的雇员去自由发挥 反之外向的领导就可能，当然是不经意的 对于事情变得十分激动 他们在事务上有了自己想法的印迹 这使其他人的想法可能就不会很容易地 在舞台上发光了
Now in fact, some of our transformative leaders in history have been introverts.	事实上，历史上一些有改革能力的领袖都是内向的人
I'll give you some examples.	我会举一些例子给你们
Eleanor Roosevelt, Rosa Parks, Gandhi -- all these peopled described themselves as quiet and soft-spoken and even shy.	埃莉诺·罗斯福，罗沙·帕克斯，甘地 -- 所有这些人都把自己描述成 内向，说话温柔甚至是害羞的人
And they all took the spotlight, even though every bone in their bodies was telling them not to.	他们仍然站在了聚光灯下 即使他们浑身上下 都感知他们说不要
And this turns out to have a special power all its own, because people could feel that these leaders were at the helm, not because they enjoyed directing others and not out of the pleasure of being looked at; they were there because they had no choice, because they were driven to do what they thought was right.	这证明是一种属于它自身的特殊的力量 因为人们都会感觉这些领导者同时是掌舵者 并不是因为他们喜欢指挥别人 抑或是享受众人目光的聚焦 他们处在那个位置因为他们没有选择 因为他们行驶在他们认为正确的道路上
Now I think at this point it's important for me to say that I actually love extroverts.	现在我觉得对于这点我有必要说 那就是我真的喜爱外向的人
I always like to say some of my best friends are extroverts, including my beloved husband.	我总是喜欢说我最好的几个朋友都是外向的人 包括我亲爱的丈夫
And we all fall at different points, of course, along the introvert/extrovert spectrum.	当然了我们都会在不同点时偏向 内向者/外向者的范围
Even Carl Jung, the psychologist who first popularized these terms, said that there's no such thing as a pure introvert or a pure extrovert.	甚至是卡尔·荣格，这个让这些名词为大众所熟知的心理学家，说道 世上绝没有一个纯粹的内向的人 或者一个纯粹的外向的人
He said that such a man would be in a lunatic asylum, if he existed at all.	他说这样的人会在精神病院里 如果他存在的话
And some people fall smack in the middle of the introvert/extrovert spectrum, and we call these people ambiverts.	还有一些人处在中间的迹象 在内向与外向之间 我们称这些人为"中向性格者"
And I often think that they have the best of all worlds.	并且我总是认为他们拥有世界最美好的一切
But many of us do recognize ourselves as one type or the other.	但是我们中的大多数总是认为自己属于内向或者外向，其中一类
And what I'm saying is that culturally we need a much better balance.	同时我想说从文化意义上讲我们需要一种更好的平衡
We need more of a yin and yang between these two types.	我们需要更多的阴阳的平衡 在这两种类型的人之间
This is especially important when it comes to creativity and to productivity, because when psychologists look at the lives of the most creative people, what they find are people who are very good at exchanging ideas and advancing ideas, but who also have a serious streak of introversion in them.	这点是极为重要的 当涉及创造力和生产力的时候 因为当心理学家们看待 最有创造力的人的生命的时候 他们寻找到的 是那些擅长变换思维的人 提出想法的人 但是他们同时也有着极为显著的偏内向的痕迹
And this is because solitude is a crucial ingredient often to creativity.	这是因为独处是非常关键的因素 对于创造力来说
So Darwin, he took long walks alone in the woods and emphatically turned down dinner party invitations.	所以达尔文 自己一个人漫步在小树林里 并且断然拒绝了晚餐派对的邀约
Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, he dreamed up many of his amazing creations in a lonely bell tower office that he had in the back of his house in La Jolla, California.	西奥多·盖索，更多时候以苏索博士的名号知名 他梦想过很多的惊人的创作 在他在加利福尼亚州拉霍亚市房子的后面的 一座孤独的束层的塔形办公室中
And he was actually afraid to meet the young children who read his books for fear that they were expecting him this kind of jolly Santa Claus-like figure and would be disappointed with his more reserved persona.	而且其实他很害怕见面 见那些读过他的书的年轻的孩子们 害怕他们会期待他 这样一位令人愉快的，圣诞老人形象的人物 同时又会因发现他含蓄缄默的性格而失望
Steve Wozniak invented the first Apple computer sitting alone in his cubical in Hewlett-Packard where he was working at the time.	史蒂夫·沃兹尼亚克发明了第一台苹果电脑 一个人独自坐在他的机柜旁 在他当时工作的惠普公司
And he says that he never would have become such an expert in the first place had he not been too introverted to leave the house when he was growing up.	并且他说他永远不会在那方面成为一号专家 但他还没因太内向到要离开那里 那个他成长起来的地方
Now of course, this does not mean that we should all stop collaborating -- and case in point, is Steve Wozniak famously coming together with Steve Jobs to start Apple Computer -- but it does mean that solitude matters and that for some people it is the air that they breathe.	当然了 这并不意味着我们都应该停止合作-- 恰当的例子呢，是史蒂夫·沃兹尼亚克和史蒂夫·乔布斯的著名联手 创建苹果电脑公司-- 但是这并不意味着和独处有重大关系 并且对于一些人来说 这是他们赖以呼吸生存的空气
And in fact, we have known for centuries about the transcendent power of solitude.	事实上，几个世纪以来我们已经非常明白 独处的卓越力量
It's only recently that we've strangely begun to forget it.	只是到了最近，非常奇怪，我们开始遗忘它了
If you look at most of the world's major religions, you will find seekers -- Moses, Jesus, Buddha, Muhammad -- seekers who are going off by themselves alone to the wilderness where they then have profound epiphanies and revelations that they then bring back to the rest of the community.	如果你看看世界上主要的宗教 你会发现探寻者-- 摩西，耶稣，佛祖，穆罕默德 -- 那些独身去探寻的人们 在大自然的旷野中独处，思索 在那里，他们有了深刻的顿悟和对于奥义的揭示 之后他们把这些思想带回到社会的其他地方去
So no wilderness, no revelations.	没有旷原，没有启示
This is no surprise though if you look at the insights of contemporary psychology.	尽管这并不令人惊讶 如果你注意到现代心理学的思想理论
It turns out that we can't even be in a group of people without instinctively mirroring, mimicking their opinions.	它反映出来我们甚至不能和一组人待在一起 而不去本能地模仿他们的意见与想法
Even about seemingly personal and visceral things like who you're attracted to, you will start aping the beliefs of the people around you without even realizing that that's what you're doing.	甚至是看上去私人的，发自内心的事情 像是你被谁所吸引 你会开始模仿你周围的人的信仰 甚至都觉察不到你自己在做什么
And groups famously follow the opinions of the most dominant or charismatic person in the room, even though there's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas -- I mean zero.	还曾跟随群体的意见 跟随着房间里最具有统治力的，最有领袖气质的人的思路 虽然这真的没什么关系 在成为一个卓越的演讲家还是拥有最好的主意之间-- 我的意思是"零相关"
So ...	那么...
You might be following the person with the best ideas, but you might not.	你们或许会跟随有最好头脑的人 但是你们也许不会
And do you really want to leave it up to chance?	可你们真的想把这机会扔掉吗？
Much better for everybody to go off by themselves, generate their own ideas freed from the distortions of group dynamics, and then come together as a team to talk them through in a well-managed environment and take it from there.	如果每个人都自己行动或许好得多 发掘他们自己的想法 没有群体动力学的曲解 接着来到一起组成一个团队 在一个良好管理的环境中互相交流 并且在那里学习别的思想
Now if all this is true, then why are we getting it so wrong?	如果说现在这一切都是真的 那么为什么我们还得到这样错误的结论？
Why are we setting up our schools this way and our workplaces?	为什么我们要这样创立我们的学校，还有我们的工作单位？
And why are we making these introverts feel so guilty about wanting to just go off by themselves some of the time?	为什么我们要让这些内向的人觉得那么愧疚 对于他们只是想要离开，一个人独处一段时间的事实？
One answer lies deep in our cultural history.	有一个答案在我们的文化史中埋藏已久
Western societies, and in particular the U.S., have always favored the man of action over the man of contemplation and "man" of contemplation.	西方社会 特别是在美国 总是偏爱有行动的人 而不是有深刻思考的人 有深刻思考的"人"
But in America's early days, we lived in what historians call a culture of character, where we still, at that point, valued people for their inner selves and their moral rectitude.	但是在美国早期的时候 我们生活在一个被历史学家称作"性格特征"的文化 那时我们仍然，在这点上，判断人们的价值 从人们的内涵和道义正直
And if you look at the self-help books from this era, they all had titles with things like "Character, the Grandest Thing in the World."	而且如果你看一看这个时代关于自立的书籍的话 它们都有这样一种标题： "性格"，世界上最伟大的事物
And they featured role models like Abraham Lincoln who was praised for being modest and unassuming.	并且它们以亚伯拉罕·林肯这样的为标榜 一个被形容为谦虚低调的男人
Ralph Waldo Emerson called him "A man who does not offend by superiority."	拉尔夫·瓦尔多·爱默生称他是 "一个以'优越'二字形容都不为过的人"
But then we hit the 20th century and we entered a new culture that historians call the culture of personality.	但是接着我们来到了二十世纪 并且我们融入了一种新的文化 一种被历史学家称作"个性"的文化
What happened is we had evolved an agricultural economy to a world of big business.	所发生的改变就是我们从农业经济发展为 一个大商业经济的世界
And so suddenly people are moving from small towns to the cities.	而且人们突然开始搬迁 从小的城镇搬向城市
And instead of working alongside people they've known all their lives, now they are having to prove themselves in a crowd of strangers.	并且一改他们之前的在生活中和所熟识的人们一起工作的方式 现在他们 在一群陌生人中间有必要去证明自己
So, quite understandably, qualities like magnetism and charisma suddenly come to seem really important.	这样做是非常可以理解的 像领袖气质和个人魅力这样的品质 突然间似乎变得极为重要
And sure enough, the self-help books change to meet these new needs and they start to have names like "How to Win Friends and Influence People."	那么可以肯定的是，自助自立的书的内容变更了以适应这些新的需求 并且它们开始拥有名称 像是《如何赢得朋友和影响他人》（戴尔・卡耐基所著《人性的弱点》）
And they feature as their role models really great salesmen.	他们的特点是做自己的榜样 不得不说确实是好的推销员
So that's the world we're living in today.	所以这就是我们今天生活的世界
That's our cultural inheritance.	这是我们的文化遗产
Now none of this is to say that social skills are unimportant, and I'm also not calling for the abolishing of teamwork at all.	现在没有谁能够说 社交技能是不重要的 并且我也不是想呼吁 大家废除团队合作模式
The same religions who send their sages off to lonely mountain tops also teach us love and trust.	但仍是相同的宗教，却把他们的圣人送到了孤独的山顶上 仍然教导我们爱与信任
And the problems that we are facing today in fields like science and in economics are so vast and so complex that we are going to need armies of people coming together to solve them working together.	还有我们今天所要面对的问题 像是在科学和经济领域 是如此的巨大和复杂 以至于我们需要人们强有力地团结起来 共同解决这些问题
But I am saying that the more freedom that we give introverts to be themselves, the more likely that they are to come up with their own unique solutions to these problems.	但是我想说，越给内向者自由让他们做自己 他们就做得越好 去想出他们独特的关于问题的解决办法
So now I'd like to share with you what's in my suitcase today.	所以现在我很高兴同你们分享 我手提箱中的东西
Guess what?	猜猜是什么？
Books.	书
I have a suitcase full of books.	我有一个手提箱里面装满了书
Here's Margaret Atwood, "Cat's Eye."	这是玛格丽特·阿特伍德的《猫的眼睛》
Here's a novel by Milan Kundera.	这是一本米兰·昆德拉的书
And here's "The Guide for the Perplexed" by Maimonides.	这是一本《迷途指津》 是迈蒙尼德写的
But these are not exactly my books.	但这些实际上都不是我的书
I brought these books with me because they were written by my grandfather's favorite authors.	我还是带着它们，陪伴着我 因为它们都是我祖父最喜爱的作家所写
My grandfather was a rabbi and he was a widower who lived alone in a small apartment in Brooklyn that was my favorite place in the world when I was growing up, partly because it was filled with his very gentle, very courtly presence and partly because it was filled with books.	我的祖父是一名犹太教祭司 他独身一人 在布鲁克林的一间小公寓中居住 那里是我从小到大在这个世界上最喜爱的地方 部分原因是他有着非常温和亲切的，温文尔雅的举止 部分原因是那里充满了书
I mean literally every table, every chair in this apartment had yielded its original function to now serve as a surface for swaying stacks of books.	我的意思是，毫不夸张地说，公寓中的每张桌子，每张椅子 都充分应用着它原有的功能 就是现在作为承载一大堆都在摇曳的书的表面
Just like the rest of my family, my grandfather's favorite thing to do in the whole world was to read.	就像我其他的家庭成员一样 我祖父在这个世界上最喜欢做的事情就是阅读
But he also loved his congregation, and you could feel this love in the sermons that he gave every week for the 62 years that he was a rabbi.	但是他同样也热爱他的宗教 并且你们可以从他的讲述中感觉到他这种爱 这62年来每周他都作为一名犹太教的祭司
He would takes the fruits of each week's reading and he would weave these intricate tapestries of ancient and humanist thought.	他会从每周的阅读中汲取养分 并且他会编织这些错综复杂的古代和人文主义的思想的挂毯
And people would come from all over to hear him speak.	并且人们会从各个地方前来 听他的讲话
But here's the thing about my grandfather.	但是有这么一件关于我祖父的事情
Underneath this ceremonial role, he was really modest and really introverted -- so much so that when he delivered these sermons, he had trouble making eye contact with the very same congregation that he had been speaking to for 62 years.	在这个正式的角色下隐藏着 他是一个非常谦虚的非常内向的人 是那么的谦虚内向以至于当他在向人们讲述的时候 他都不敢有视线上的接触 和同样的教堂会众 他已经发言有62年了
And even away from the podium, when you called him to say hello, he would often end the conversation prematurely for fear that he was taking up too much of your time.	甚至都还远离领奖台 当你们让他说"你好"的时候 他总会提早结束这对话 担心他会占用你太多的时间
But when he died at the age of 94, the police had to close down the streets of his neighborhood to accommodate the crowd of people who came out to mourn him.	但是当他94岁去世的时候 警察们需要封锁他所居住的街道邻里 来容纳拥挤的人们 前来哀悼他的人们
And so these days I try to learn from my grandfather's example in my own way.	这些天来我都试着从我祖父的事例中学习 以我自己的方式
So I just published a book about introversion, and it took me about seven years to write.	所以我就出版了一本关于内向性格的书 它花了我7年的时间完成它
And for me, that seven years was like total bliss, because I was reading, I was writing, I was thinking, I was researching.	而对我来说，这七年像是一种极大的喜悦 因为我在阅读，我在写作 我在思考，我在探寻
It was my version of my grandfather's hours of the day alone in his library.	这是我的版本 对于爷爷一天中几个小时都要独自待在图书馆这件事
But now all of a sudden my job is very different, and my job is to be out here talking about it, talking about introversion.	但是现在突然间我的工作变得很不同了 我的工作变成了站在这里讲述它 讲述内向的性格
And that's a lot harder for me, because as honored as I am to be here with all of you right now, this is not my natural milieu.	而且这对于我来说是有一点困难的 因为我很荣幸 在现在被你们所有人所倾听 这可不是我自然的文化背景
So I prepared for moments like these as best I could.	所以我准备了一会就像这样 以我所能做到的最好的方式
I spent the last year practicing public speaking every chance I could get.	我花了最近一年的时间练习在公共场合发言 在我能得到的每一个机会中
And I call this my "year of speaking dangerously."	我把这一年称作我的"危险地发言的一年"
And that actually helped a lot.	而且它的确帮了我很大的忙
But I'll tell you, what helps even more is my sense, my belief, my hope that when it comes to our attitudes to introversion and to quiet and to solitude, we truly are poised on the brink on dramatic change.	但是我要告诉你们一个帮我更大的忙的事情 那就是我的感觉，我的信仰，我的希望 当谈及我们态度的时候 对于内向性格的，对于安静，对于独处的态度时 我们确实是在急剧变化的边缘上保持微妙的平衡
I mean, we are.	我的意思是，我们在保持平衡
And so I am going to leave you now with three calls for action for those who share this vision.	现在我将要给你们留下一些东西 三件对于你们的行动有帮助的事情 献给那些观看我的演讲的人
Number one: Stop the madness for constant group work.	第一： 停止对于经常要团队协作的执迷与疯狂
Just stop it.	停止它就好了
Thank you.	谢谢你们
And I want to be clear about what I'm saying, because I deeply believe our offices should be encouraging casual, chatty cafe-style types of interactions -- you know, the kind where people come together and serendipitously have an exchange of ideas.	我想让我所说的事情变得清晰一些 因为我对于我们的办公深信不疑 应该鼓励它们 那种休闲随意的，聊天似的咖啡厅式的相互作用-- 你们知道的，道不同不相为谋，人们聚到一起 并且互相交换着宝贵的意见
That is great.	这是很棒的
It's great for introverts and it's great for extroverts.	这对于内向者很好，同样对于外向者也好
But we need much more privacy and much more freedom and much more autonomy at work.	但是我们需要更多的隐私和更多的自由 还有更多对于我们本身工作的自主权
School, same thing.	对于学校，也是同样的。
We need to be teaching kids to work together, for sure, but we also need to be teaching them how to work on their own.	我们当然需要教会孩子们要一起学习工作 但是我们同样需要教会孩子们怎么样独立完成任务
This is especially important for extroverted children too.	这对于外向的孩子们来说同样是极为重要的
They need to work on their own because that is where deep thought comes from in part.	他们需要独立完成工作 因为从某种程度上，这是他们深刻思考的来源
Okay, number two: Go to the wilderness.	好了，第二个：去到野外（打开思维）
Be like Buddha, have your own revelations.	就像佛祖一样，拥有你们自己对于事物的揭示启迪
I'm not saying that we all have to now go off and build our own cabins in the woods and never talk to each other again, but I am saying that we could all stand to unplug and get inside our own heads a little more often.	我并不是说 我们都要跑去小树林里建造我们自己的小屋 并且之后就永远不和别人说话了 但是我要说我们都可以坚持去去除一些障碍物 然后深入我们自己的大脑思想 时不时得再深入一点
Number three: Take a good look at what's inside your own suitcase and why you put it there.	第三点： 好好看一眼你的旅行箱内有什么东西 还有你为什么把它放进去
So extroverts, maybe your suitcases are also full of books.	所以外向者们 也许你们的箱子内同样堆满了书
Or maybe they're full of champagne glasses or skydiving equipment.	或者它们装满了香槟的玻璃酒杯 或者是跳伞运动的设备
Whatever it is, I hope you take these things out every chance you get and grace us with your energy and your joy.	不管它是什么，我希望每当你们有机会你们就把它拿出来 用你的能量和你的快乐让我们感受到美和享受
But introverts, you being you, you probably have the impulse to guard very carefully what's inside your own suitcase.	但是内向者们，你们作为内向者 你们很可能有仔细保护一切的冲动 在你箱子里的东西
And that's okay.	这没有问题
But occasionally, just occasionally, I hope you will open up your suitcases for other people to see, because the world needs you and it needs the things you carry.	但是偶尔地，只是说偶尔地 我希望你们可以打开你们的手提箱，让别人看一看 因为这个世界需要你们，同样需要你们身上所携带的你们特有的事物
So I wish you the best of all possible journeys and the courage to speak softly.	所以对于你们即将走上的所有旅程，我都给予你们我最美好的祝愿 还有温柔地说话的勇气
Thank you very much.	非常感谢你们
Thank you. Thank you.	谢谢。谢谢
Being a child, and sort of crawling around the house, I remember these Turkish carpets, and there were these scenes, these battle scenes, these love scenes.	还是小孩时，在家里爬来爬去， 我记得这些土耳其地毯， 还有这些景象：打斗的景象、恩爱的景象。
I mean, look, this animal is trying to fight back this spear from this soldier.	你看，这只动物试图对抗 士兵刺下的矛。
And my mom took these pictures actually, last week, of our carpets, and I remember this to this day.	我妈上星期拍这些照片， 这些地毯，到现在我都还记得。
There was another object, this sort of towering piece of furniture with creatures and gargoyles and nudity -- pretty scary stuff, when you're a little kid.	还有另一个物品，这个高耸的家具， 有动物、怪兽和裸女 – 对小孩而言蛮可怕的。
What I remember today from this is that objects tell stories, so storytelling has been a really strong influence in my work.	今天我记得的是，这些物品都会说故事， 因此说故事对我的工作有很强的影响。
And then there was another influence.	另外还有一个影响。
I was a teenager, and at 15 or 16, I guess like all teenagers, we want to just do what we love and what we believe in.	我还是个青少年，15、16岁，像其他青少年一样， 想做自己喜爱、自己信仰的事。
And so, I fused together the two things I loved the most, which was skiing and windsurfing.	因此， 我融合了我最喜欢的两件事： 滑雪和风帆。
Those are pretty good escapes from the drab weather in Switzerland.	那是避开瑞士枯燥气候的好方法。
So, I created this compilation of the two: I took my skis and I took a board and I put a mast foot in there, and some foot straps, and some metal fins, and here I was, going really fast on frozen lakes.	因此，我创作了这两件事的组合： 我拿了我的雪橇及滑溜板，安上一个桅杆座， 几条绑脚带及一些金属鳍片， 就这样，在结冰的湖面高速滑行。
It was really a death trap. I mean, it was incredible, it worked incredibly well, but it was really dangerous.	那真是个死亡陷阱。很难相信， 它可以用，但却非常危险。
And I realized then I had to go to design school.	因此，我知道我该去读设计学校。
I mean, look at those graphics there.	我是说，看看那些图像。
So, I went to design school, and it was the early '90s when I finished.	因此我去读了设计学校， 那是 '90年代早期，当我毕业时，
And I saw something extraordinary happening in Silicon Valley, so I wanted to be there, and I saw that the computer was coming into our homes, that it had to change in order to be with us in our homes.	我发现硅谷发生着奇特的事， 我想要去那里， 我发现计算机正在走入家庭。 计算机要改变才能和我们在家里相处。
And so I got myself a job and I was working for a consultancy, and we would get in to these meetings, and these managers would come in, and they would say, "Well, what we're going to do here is really important, you know."	我找到一份工作，在设计顾问公司上班， 我们会去参加会议， 经理们进来， 他们会说： "我们要做的事，真的很重要。"
And they would give the projects code names, you know, mostly from "Star Wars," actually: things like C3PO, Yoda, Luke.	他们将为项目取个代码， 大都取自星际大战，如：C3PO、尤达、路克。
So, in anticipation, I would be this young designer in the back of the room, and I would raise my hand, and I would ask questions.	充满期待，我这个年轻设计师 坐在会议室后方，我会举手 问问题。
I mean, in retrospect, probably stupid questions, but things like, "What's this Caps Lock key for?"	回想当初，或许是些笨问题， 像："Cap Lock 键 做什么用?"
or "What's this Num Lock key for?" You know, that thing?	或 "Num Lock 键 做什么用?" － 就是这个。
"You know, do people really use it?	人们真的使用它吗？
Do they need it? Do they want it in their homes?"	他们需要它吗？在家里要它吗？
What I realized then is, they didn't really want to change the legacy stuff; they didn't want to change the insides.	那时我觉得，他们不想改变 传统的东西；他们不想改变内部。
They were really looking for us, the designers, to create the skins, to put some pretty stuff outside of the box.	他们要设计师去创造表皮， 放些好看的东西在盒子外。
And I didn't want to be a colorist.	我不想当彩妆师。
It wasn't what I wanted to do.	那不是我想做的。
I didn't want to be a stylist in this way.	我不想做这样的美容师。
And then I saw this quote: "advertising is the price companies pay for being unoriginal."	接着我读到这句名言： "广告是公司为没有原创性，而付出的代价。"
So, I had to start on my own. So I moved to San Francisco, and I started a little company, fuseproject.	因此，我必须自己来。我搬到旧金山， 开了家小公司：Fuseproject。
And what I wanted to work on is important stuff.	我想做的是重要的事。
And I wanted to really not just work on the skins, but I wanted to work on the entire human experience.	我不要只是做表皮， 我要做完整的人类体验。
And so the first projects were sort of humble, but they took technology and maybe made it into things that people would use in a new way, and maybe finding some new functionality.	早期的专案都很卑微， 它们采用科技，放到产品里， 让人得以新方式去使用， 或找到新功能性。
This is a watch we made for Mini Cooper, the car company, right when it launched, and it's the first watch that has a display that switches from horizontal to vertical.	这个表是我们为迷你库伯汽车公司 开张时做的， 它的显示是第一个可以 水平、垂直调换。
And that allows me to check my timer discretely, here, without bending my elbow.	它让我能准确读取时间， 不必弯曲手臂。
And other projects, which were really about transformation, about matching the human need.	其他的项目则是做转换， 去满足人类的需求。
This is a little piece of furniture for an Italian manufacturer, and it ships completely flat, and then it folds into a coffee table and a stool and whatnot.	这是为意大利公司做的小家具， 装运时是平的， 然后可折成咖啡桌、凳子、或什么的。
And something a little bit more experimental: this is a light fixture for Swarovski, and what it does is, it changes shape.	还有一些实验性的： 这是施华洛灯具， 它会改变形状：
So, it goes from a circle, to a round, to a square, to a figure eight.	圆形、环形、方形、8 字形，
And just by drawing on a little computer tablet, the entire light fixture adjusts to what shape you want.	在小型计算机数字板上画一下， 灯具就调整为你要的形状。
And then finally, the leaf lamp for Herman Miller.	最后，赫曼米勒的叶子灯。
This is a pretty involved process; it took us about four and a half years.	这是个介入很深的过程， 它花了我们大约四年半。
But I really was looking for creating a unique experience of light, a new experience of light.	我一心追求创造独特的照明体验， 新的照明体验。
So, we had to design both the light and the light bulb.	因此我们要同时设计灯和灯泡。
And that's a unique opportunity, I would say, in design.	我认为，这是很特别的设计机会。
And the new experience I was looking for is giving the choice for the user to go from a warm, sort of glowing kind of mood light, all the way to a bright work light.	我追求的新体验 是让使用者选择从 一种温暖的，有点微弱的心情灯光， 一路到光亮的工作灯。
So, the light bulb actually does that.	灯泡真的可以那样。
It allows the person to switch, and to mix these two colorations.	使用者可以调整、 混合这两种色调。
And it's done in a very simple way: one just touches the base of the light, and on one side, you can mix the brightness, and on the other, the coloration of the light.	原理很简单： 只要碰触灯座， 一边可以混合亮度， 另一边则是光的色调。
So, all of these projects have a humanistic sense to them, and I think as designers we need to really think about how we can create a different relationship between our work and the world, whether it's for business, or, as I'm going to show, on some civic-type projects.	因此这些项目都有人道意义， 我认为，身为设计师，我们该思考 如何创造我们的作品 和世界的新关系， 不论是商业项目， 或如我将要提的公益专案。
Because I think everybody agrees that as designers we bring value to business, value to the users also, but I think it's the values that we put into these projects that ultimately create the greater value.	因为大家都同意，身为设计师我们带来价值： 商业价值、使用者价值， 但我认为，是我们放进项目的价值 最后创造出更大的价值。
And the values we bring can be about environmental issues, about sustainability, about lower power consumption.	我们带来的价值 可能是关于环境议题、 永续性、低耗能。
You know, they can be about function and beauty; they can be about business strategy.	它们可能是功能或美观； 可能是商业策略。
But designers are really the glue that brings these things together.	但设计师却是黏胶 把这些组合在一起。
So Jawbone is a project that you're familiar with, and it has a humanistic technology.	"颚骨耳机" 是你们知道的项目， 它使用人性化的科技。
It feels your skin. It rests on your skin, and it knows when it is you're talking.	它能感觉你的皮肤， 它知道你何时说话。
And by knowing when it is you're talking, it gets rid of the other noises that it knows about, which is the environmental noises.	因为知道你说话， 它可以消除其他噪音， 也就是环境噪音。
But the other thing that is humanistic about Jawbone is that we really decided to take out all the techie stuff, and all the nerdy stuff out of it, and try to make it as beautiful as we can.	"颚骨" 的其他人性面是， 我们决定要除去太科技的东西、 及难懂的东西， 并使它尽可能美观。
I mean, think about it: the care we take in selecting sunglasses, or jewelry, or accessories is really important, so if it isn't beautiful, it really doesn't belong on your face.	就是说，你想： 我们用心选择太阳眼镜、珠宝、 或饰品等是很重要的， 如果它不好看，就不该挂在脸上。
And this is what we're pursuing here.	这就是我们追求的。
But how we work on Jawbone is really unique.	但我们如何创造 "颚骨"，真的很特别。
I want to point at something here, on the left.	我要用左边的画面来说明。
This is the board, this is one of the things that goes inside that makes this technology work.	这是电路板，是放在内部 使科技运作的东西。
But this is the design process: there's somebody changing the board, putting tracers on the board, changing the location of the ICs, as the designers on the other side are doing the work.	设计过程是这样的： 有人改变电路板、 在电路板放描迹器、改变IC的位置， 而设计师在另一边工作。
So, it's not about slapping skins, anymore, on a technology.	所以它不再是为科技做表皮。
It's really about designing from the inside out.	而真的是由内而外的设计。
And then, on the other side of the room, the designers are making small adjustments, sketching, drawing by hand, putting it in the computer.	而房间的另一边 设计师们忙着做修正、 画草图、徒手画、放进计算机等，
And it's what I call being design driven.	这就是我说的 "设计驱导"。
You know, there is some push and pull, but design is really helping define the whole experience from the inside out.	你知道的，有些推力和拉力， 但设计真的由内往外 帮助定义整个体验。
And then, of course, design is never done.	当然设计永远做不完。
And this is -- the other new way that is unique in how we work is, because it's never done, you have to do all this other stuff.	这也是我们工作的独特之处， 因为它永远做不完， 你必得做其他的东西。
The packaging, and the website, and you need to continue to really touch the user, in many ways.	包装、网站，你必需继续 以各种方式接触使用者。
But how do you retain somebody, when it's never done?	但你如何留住人，如果它永远做不完呢？
And Hosain Rahman, the CEO of Aliph Jawbone, you know, really understands that you need a different structure.	赫扎因拉赫曼 – "颚骨" 执行长 很清楚需要有不同的结构。
So, in a way, the different structure is that we're partners, it's a partnership. We can continue to work and dedicate ourselves to this project, and then we also share in the rewards.	所谓不同结构是指我们是伙伴， 有伙伴关系。我们可以继续工作， 致力于这个专案， 我们都分享成果。
And here's another project, another partnership-type approach.	这是另一个项目，另一个伙伴型的方法。
This is called Y Water, and it's this guy from Los Angeles, Thomas Arndt, Austrian originally, who came to us, and all he wanted to do was to create a healthy drink, or an organic drink for his kids, to replace the high-sugar-content sodas that he's trying to get them away from.	这个叫Y水， 是由来自洛杉矶的家伙，叫 托马斯阿恩特， 出生于澳洲，他来找我们， 想要为小孩们创造健康饮水， 或叫有机饮水， 以替代高糖含量的汽水， 他要小孩别喝汽水。
So, we worked on this bottle, and it's completely symmetrical in every dimension.	因此，我们创造了这个瓶子， 它在各个面向都是对称的。
And this allows the bottle to turn into a game.	这使瓶子可以变成游戏。
The bottles connect together, and you can create different shapes, different forms.	瓶子可互相结合， 可创造不同形状、不同形态。
Thank you.	谢谢。
And then while we were doing this, the shape of the bottle upside down reminded us of a Y, and then we thought, well these words, "why" and "why not," are probably the most important words that kids ask.	当我们正在做这个时， 瓶子颠倒的形状让我们想到Y， 于是我们想到 why、why not 可能是孩子们最重要的疑问词。
So we called it Y Water. And so this is another place where it all comes together in the same room: the three-dimensional design, the ideas, the branding, it all becomes deeply connected.	于是我们把它命名为 "Y水"。这又是 另个出自同一房间的例子： 立体设计、构想、品牌， 都有很深的结合。
And then the other thing about this project is, we bring intellectual property, we bring a marketing approach, we bring all this stuff, but I think, at the end of the day, what we bring is these values, and these values create a soul for the companies we work with.	这个专案的另一件事是， 我们带来知识产权， 我们带来营销手法， 我们带来这些，到当天结束时， 我们带来这些价值， 这些价值替公司创造一个灵魂。
And it's especially rewarding when your design work becomes a creative endeavor, when others can be creative and do more with it.	那个报偿是特别高的，如果你的设计工作 是个有创意的付出， 使其他人能有创意并做得更好。
Here's another project, which I think really emulates that.	这是另一个专案， 它发挥了那个理念。
This is the One Laptop per Child, the $100 laptop.	这是 "每个学童有计算机"，或叫 "百元计算机" 专案。
This picture is incredible.	这张照片令人惊奇。
In Nigeria, people carry their most precious belongings on their heads.	奈及利亚人把最贵重的东西带在头上。
This girl is going to school with a laptop on her head.	这个女孩顶着计算机去上学。
I mean, to me, it just means so much.	对我，那真是意义不凡。
But when Nicholas Negroponte -- and he has spoken about this project a lot, he's the founder of OLPC -- came to us about two and a half years ago, there were some clear ideas.	当 尼古拉斯尼葛洛庞帝 – 他谈过很多这个专案的事， 他是 OLPC 的创始人 – 来找我们 大约两年半前， 他有很清晰的想法。
He wanted to bring education and he wanted to bring technology, and those are pillars of his life, but also pillars of the mission of One Laptop per Child.	他要推动教育，他要推动科技， 这是他生命的支柱， 也是 "每个学童有计算机" 使命的支柱。
But the third pillar that he talked about was design.	但他谈的第三支柱是设计。
And at the time, I wasn't really working on computers.	那时我并不设计计算机。
I didn't really want to, from the previous adventure.	我不很想做，因为有之前的经历。
But what he said was really significant, is that design was going to be why the kids were going to love this product, how we were going to make it low cost, robust.	但他说得很有意思， 设计可以使这些学童 喜欢这个计算机。 如何使它便宜、强固，
And plus, he said he was going to get rid of the Caps Lock key -- -- and the Num Lock key, too.	此外他说，他要除去 Cap Lock 键 – – 还有 Num Lock 键 。
So, I was convinced. We designed it to be iconic, to look different. To look like it's for a kid, but not like a toy.	我被说服了。我们把它设计得佷独特， 看起来不同，就像学童用的，但不像玩具。
And then the integration of all these great technologies, which you've heard about, the Wi-Fi antennas that allow the kids to connect; the screen, which you can read in sunlight; the keyboard, which is made out of rubber, and it's protected from the environment.	还有那些重要科技的整合， 你听过的，如： WiFi 天线让学童们上网； 阳光下也能读的屏幕； 橡胶做的键盘， 它不受环境影响。
You know, all these great technologies really happened because of the passion and the OLPC people and the engineers.	这些重要科技之能加进去， 全是靠一股热情、 OLPC 推动者、及工程师们。
They fought the suppliers, they fought the manufacturers.	他们向供货商争取， 向制造商争取。
I mean, they fought like animals for this to remain they way it is.	他们就像动物一样， 为了留住这些而争取。
And in a way, it is that will that makes projects like this one -- allows the process from not destroying the original idea.	因为这样，而能达成这个项目， 容许整个过程 不致扼杀原本的想法。
And I think this is something really important.	我认为这是很重要的事。
So, now you get these pictures -- you get up in the morning, and you see the kids in Nigeria and you see them in Uruguay with their computers, and in Mongolia.	所以，看看这些照片 – 早晨起来，你看到奈及利亚的学童、 乌拉圭的学童 有计算机了，还有蒙古的学童。
And we went away from obviously the beige.	我们不再用米黄色 –
I mean it's colorful, it's fun.	而用活泼的色彩；有趣。
In fact, you can see each logo is a little bit different.	事实上，你可以看到，每个标志都有点不同。
It's because we were able to run, during the manufacturing process, 20 colors for the X and the O, which is the name of the computer, and by mixing them on the manufacturing floor, you get 20 times 20: you get 400 different options there.	因为我们能够 在制造过程中， 各 20 色用在X和O， 这是计算机的名字， 将它们在制造现场混合， 20 x 20： 共有 400 种组合。
So, the lessons from seeing the kids using them in the developing world are incredible.	看开发中国家学童用它们 得到的启示是难能可贵的。
But this is my nephew, Anthony, in Switzerland, and he had the laptop for an afternoon, and I had to take it back. It was hard.	但这是我侄子安东尼，在瑞士， 有个下午我让他用计算机， 要把它拿回来，还真难。
And it was a prototype. And a month and a half later, I come back to Switzerland, and there he is playing with his own version.	这是原型机。一个半月后， 我回到瑞士， 看到他在玩自己的计算机。
Like paper, paper and cardboard.	像是纸，纸和纸板。
So, I'm going to finish with one last project, and this is a little bit more of adult play.	结束前将再谈一个项目。 这有点像是成人游戏。
Some of you might have heard about the New York City condom.	或许有人听过纽约安全套。
It's actually just launched, actually launched on Valentine's Day, February 14, about 10 days ago.	它才刚发行，在情人节公开， 二月十四日，大约十天前。
So, the Department of Health in New York came to us, and they needed a way to distribute 36 million condoms for free to the citizens of New York.	纽约卫生局来找我们， 他们要找分送安全套的方法 免费分送 3,600 万个安全套给纽约市民。
So a pretty big endeavor, and we worked on the dispensers.	是一件大工程，我们设计配送器，
These are the dispensers. There's this friendly shape.	这些就是配送器。它有亲切的外形。
It's a little bit like designing a fire hydrant, and it has to be easily serviceable: you have to know where it is and what it does.	有点像是设计消防栓， 它要方便好用： 我们要知道它在哪、能做什么。
And we also designed the condoms themselves.	我们也设计安全套本身。
And I was just in New York at the launch, and I went to see all these places where they're installed: this is at a Puerto Rican little mom-and-pop store; at a bar in Christopher Street; at a pool hall.	发行时我刚好在纽约， 我去看它们装设的地方。 这是 Puerto Rican，一家小型杂货店， 克里斯多街的一家酒吧、在撞球场。
I mean, they're being installed in homeless clinics -- everywhere.	装在各处的游民保健中心。
Of course, clubs and discos, too.	当然还有俱乐部和迪斯科舞厅。
And here's the public service announcement for this project.	这是项目的公共广告。
Get some.	拿几个吧。
So, this is really where design is able to create a conversation.	这是设计 能创造的对话。
I was in these venues, and people were, you know, really into getting them. They were excited.	我到了这些地方，人们都 都去拿了。他们很兴奋。
It was breaking the ice, it was getting over a stigma, and I think that's also what design can do.	可以说破冰了， 它打破了难为情， 我认为这也是设计能做到的。
So, I was going to throw some condoms in the room and whatnot, but I'm not sure it's the etiquette here.	因此，我想要... 丢一些安全套给观众， 但我不确定是否适宜。
Yeah? All right, all right. I have only a few.	啊，很好。我只有一些。
So, I have more, you can always ask me for some more later.	还有一些，想要可以再找我。
And if anybody asks why you're carrying a condom, you can just say you like the design.	如果有人问：你为何带安全套， 你可以说，你喜欢它的设计。
So, I'll finish with just one thought: if we all work together on creating value, but if we really keep in mind the values of the work that we do, I think we can change the work that we do.	最后，我以一个想法来做结束： 如果我们一起创造价值， 如果我们都记住我们工作的价值， 我们能改变我们的工作。
We can change these values, can change the companies we work with, and eventually, together, maybe we can change the world.	我们能改变这些价值，能改变公司， 最后，也许我们能一起改变世界。
So, thank you.	谢谢。
Thank you so much everyone from TED, and Chris and Amy in particular.	这里我要感谢 TED 大会主办方，特别感谢克里斯和安弥
I cannot believe I'm here.	我真不曾想象到我会有机会登上这个舞台
I have not slept in weeks.	我有好几周都没睡好觉了。
Neil and I were sitting there comparing how little we've slept in anticipation for this. I've never been so nervous -- and I do this when I'm nervous, I just realized.	刚才我在台下还跟尼尔比谁睡得更少呢 为了准备这个演讲 我可谓从没有这么紧张过 我刚刚意识到我一紧张就会这样子搓手
So, I'm going to talk about sort of what we did at this organization called 826 Valencia, and then I'm going to talk about how we all might join in and do similar things.	好了，我今天主要是谈谈我们这个组织做的一些事情 它的名字是"826瓦伦西亚" 希望大家听完我的演讲后能有所启发，一起干类似的事情
Back in about 2000, I was living in Brooklyn, I was trying to finish my first book, I was wandering around dazed every day because I wrote from 12 a.m. to 5 a.m.	2000年的时候，我住在布鲁克林 那时我正在写我的第一本书 每天白天，我都会在街上神智恍惚的来回走 因为我每晚都是从夜里12点写到凌晨5点
So I would walk around in a daze during the day.	于是，到了白天，我就精神恍惚的在街上走
I had no mental acuity to speak of during the day, but I had flexible hours.	白天，我不能完全集中精神，可是，我的工作时间比较灵活
In the Brooklyn neighborhood that I lived in, Park Slope, there are a lot of writers -- it's like a very high per capita ratio of writers to normal people.	我住在布鲁克林区的斜坡公园附近 那里是作家的汇集之地 要是说到作家分布的情况 那里的作家人数在整个社区中的比例是颇高的
Meanwhile, I had grown up around a lot of teachers.	此外，我自小就是在一种教师的氛围中成长的
My mom was a teacher, my sister became a teacher and after college so many of my friends went into teaching.	我母亲是一位教师，我姐姐毕业后也当上了一名教师 我有很多朋友在念完大学以后也走上了教师的岗位
And so I was always hearing them talk about their lives and how inspiring they were, and they were really sort of the most hard-working and constantly inspiring people I knew.	我经常听他们谈论学校里的事情 他们说学校里有很多给人鼓舞的事情在发生 我认为教师是最勤劳 同时又经常能给人们带来启迪的人之一
But I knew so many of the things they were up against, so many of the struggles they were dealing with.	此外，我也深知他们面临哪些困难 知道他们的种种艰难处境
And one of them was that so many of my friends that were teaching in city schools were having trouble with their students keeping up at grade level, in their reading and writing in particular.	他们遇到的其中一个难题是 让孩子在读写这两方面 的成绩得到提升 这个问题在那些市立学校里头表现最突出
Now, so many of these students had come from households where English isn't spoken in the home, where a lot of them have different special needs, learning disabilities. And of course they're working in schools which sometimes and very often are under-funded.	那些学校的学生 在家里根本不说英语 此外 他们还有其他各种不同的需要 包括学习障碍 而他们所在的学校 则经常遇到资金不足的难题
And so they would talk to me about this and say, "You know, what we really need is just more people, more bodies, more one-on-one attention, more hours, more expertise from people that have skills in English and can work with these students one-on-one."	我的朋友跟我提起这事 他们说："我们要的是更多的人手 对孩子给予更多一对一的关心 要是我们能找到更多人，更多有经验的人 让他们一对一的给孩子进行辅导，那就好了
Now, I would say, "Well, why don't you just work with them one-on-one?"	我就问：那你们干嘛不给孩子来个一对一的辅导？
And they would say, "Well, we have five classes of 30 to 40 students each.	他们回答说 我们每个人都要负责五个班，每个班三四十人
This can lead up to 150, 180, 200 students a day.	加起来我们每人每天都要应付180到200个学生
How can we possibly give each student even one hour a week of one-on-one attention?"	我们怎么有可能给予学生 哪怕是每人一小时的关注？
You'd have to greatly multiply the workweek and clone the teachers.	除非你大幅度加大教师的工作量，并克隆出更多的老师
And so we started talking about this.	于是我们开始考虑这事情
And at the same time, I thought about this massive group of people I knew: writers, editors, journalists, graduate students, assistant professors, you name it.	与此同时 我想到了我认识的那一班专业人士 他们是作家、或编辑、或记者、或研究生 或者教授助理，反正就是搞文字的
All these people that had sort of flexible daily hours and an interest in the English word -- I hope to have an interest in the English language, but I'm not speaking it well right now.	这些人的工作时间都很灵活 他们也对英语这门语言怀有浓厚兴趣 此刻，我也想讲得更有条理 但我显然是言不由衷了
I'm trying. That clock has got me.	我尽可能讲得好一点吧。看 墙上那个钟告诉我要控制好时间！
But everyone that I knew had an interest in the primacy of the written word in terms of nurturing a democracy, nurturing an enlightened life.	我认识的每个人都认同文字创作不可替代的意义 民主的孕育、优质生活的形成，皆舍此不可
And so they had, you know, their time and their interest, but at the same time there wasn't a conduit that I knew of in my community to bring these two communities together.	而我的这些朋友 他们有的是时间和兴趣 但是，我们那时候还没有一种管道， 把这两种需求结合起来
So when I moved back to San Francisco, we rented this building.	其后我们搬回到旧金山，租了这所房子
And the idea was to put McSweeney's -- McSweeney's Quarterly, that we published twice or three times a year, and a few other magazines -- we were going to move it into an office for the first time.	我们想把《麦思维尼季刊》 那是一份每年出版两三次的刊物 以及其他杂志，都放到那里 我们第一次要搬进办公室啦
It used to be in my kitchen in Brooklyn.	在那以前，我的厨房就是办公室
We were going to move it into an office, and we were going to actually share space with a tutoring center.	我们现在要搬到正式的办公室去 并且我们打算与辅导中心共用一块场地
So we thought, "We'll have all these writers and editors and everybody -- sort of a writing community -- coming into the office every day anyway, why don't we just open up the front of the building for students to come in there after school, get extra help on their written homework, so you have basically no border between these two communities?"	我们那时候想：这里每天都会有那么多的作家、编辑、记者 进出这个办公室 为什么我们不把房子的大门打开 让附近的孩子在放学后来得这里 获得专家的课业辅导 以此来拉近两个作家与孩子两个群体间的距离？
So the idea was that we would be working on whatever we're working on, at 2:30 p.m. the students flow in and you put down what you're doing, or you trade, or you work a little bit later or whatever it is.	我们就想 我们只管在办公室干自己的事 下午两点半孩子一放学，你就放下手头的工作 或者你找别的时间去干，或者你干晚一点
You give those hours in the afternoon to the students in the neighborhood.	反正在下午 你就把时间献给这些住在附近的孩子
So, we had this place, we rented it, the landlord was all for it. We did this mural, that's a Chris Ware mural, that basically explains the entire history of the printed word, in mural form -- it takes a long time to digest and you have to stand in the middle of the road.	于是我们找到这房子，租了下来 房东对此也十分支持。看，那是一副壁画 它以壁画的方式 来讲述印刷术的故事 你要花点时间，走到大街上，远远的看，才能看得出其中的含义
So we rented this space.	好了，我们就租下了这房子
And everything was great except the landlord said, "Well, the space is zoned for retail; you have to come up with something.	一切都很顺利，可是房东跟我们说 这个区域是专门用作销售的
You've gotta sell something.	你要搞点什么来卖啊！
You can't just have a tutoring center."	单单搞一个辅导中心是不够的！
So we thought, "Ha ha! Really!"	我们心想：真的要那么做吗？
And we couldn't think of anything necessarily to sell, but we did all the necessary research.	那时候我们真的想不到有什么东西值得卖的， 但我们做了充分的研究
It used to be a weight room, so there were rubber floors below, acoustic tile ceilings and fluorescent lights.	发现那里原来是一个健身室，地板都是铺橡胶的， 还有隔音的天花板和荧光灯。
We took all that down, and we found beautiful wooden floors, whitewashed beams and it had the look -- while we were renovating this place, somebody said, "You know, it really kind of looks like the hull of a ship."	当我们把这些东西都拆下来以后，我们发现地面是木板做的。 还能看到粉刷成白色的边， 就在我们给那房子进行翻新的时候，有人喊出一句： "大家看，这是不是很像一艘船的内核？"
And we looked around and somebody else said, "Well, you should sell supplies to the working buccaneer."	于是我们仔细的环顾四周，又有人说， "嘿，不如我们就在此地卖海盗用品吧！"
And so this is what we did. So it made everybody laugh, and we said, "There's a point to that.	说干就干。正因为这样做能够给人们带来一点笑料 我们不认为那是纯粹的疯子的行为
Let's sell pirate supplies." This is the pirate supply store.	就这么决定了要卖海盗用品
You see, this is sort of a sketch I did on a napkin.	看，这时我在一块手绢上画的一幅画
A great carpenter built all this stuff and you see, we made it look sort of pirate supply-like.	屋子里的东西都是一个木匠搞成的 我们尽可能做成海盗屋的模样
Here you see planks sold by the foot and we have supplies to combat scurvy.	这是按尺寸出售的厚木板 抗坏血病的装备
We have the peg legs there, that are all handmade and fitted to you.	还有手工制作的海盗假腿
Up at the top, you see the eyepatch display, which is the black column there for everyday use for your eyepatch, and then you have the pastel and other colors for stepping out at night -- special occasions, bar mitzvahs and whatever.	在顶上你还能看到海盗必备的眼罩 那个黑色框里装的是日间使用的眼罩 而素色和其他颜色的眼罩 通常是在夜间 一些特殊场合使用
So we opened this place. And this is a vat that we fill with treasures that students dig in.	于是我们装修完以后就开张了。看，这是一个大盆子 我们把一些小礼物放到里面去，孩子来了，就去那里找礼物。
This is replacement eyes in case you lose one.	这是一个假眼——假如你眼睛坏了，可以用这个。
These are some signs that we have all over the place: "Practical Joking with Pirates."	还有这些贴在墙壁上的口号： "与海盗开玩笑。"
While you're reading the sign, we pull a rope behind the counter and eight mop heads drop on your head.	就在你细读这些口号的时候，我们就在背后拉一下绳子 就马上会有八个拖把头降临到你的头上
That was just my one thing -- I said we had to have something that drops on people's heads.	那纯粹是我个人的"发明"，因为我说，总得要有东西摔到人们的头上啊，
It became mop heads. And this is the fish theater, which is just a saltwater tank with three seats, and then right behind it we set up this space, which was the tutoring center.	这东西就是拖把头。这个是"鱼缸戏院"， 其实就是有一个金鱼缸，前面摆三张凳子， 就在那后面就是 我们的辅导中心
So right there is the tutoring center, and then behind the curtain were the McSweeney's offices, where all of us would be working on the magazine and book editing and things like that.	镜头上看到的就是我们的辅导中心， 背后则是"麦思维尼"的办公室 我们就在那里做书刊的编辑工作
The kids would come in -- or we thought they would come in. I should back up.	孩子们会来到这里 ——或者该这么说：当初我们确实是认为孩子会来到我们那里的
We set the place up, we opened up, we spent months and months renovating this place.	现在空间都开放了 我们可是花了几个月时间来翻新这地方啊
We had tables, chairs, computers, everything.	那里有书、桌椅和其他的工具
I went to a dot-com auction at a Holiday Inn in Palo Alto and I bought 11 G4s with a stroke of a paddle.	我在怕罗奥托市的一家假日酒店通过网上拍卖 买来了11台G4苹果电脑，以及其他的东西。
Anyway, we bought 'em, we set everything up and then we waited.	不管怎么说，反正我们是把一切都准备好了 我们就开始等
It was started with about 12 of my friends, people that I had known for years that were writers in the neighborhood.	一开始我联系到了十二位朋友， 他们都住在附近，并且跟我已认识很久。
And we sat. And at 2:30 p.m. we put a sandwich board out on the front sidewalk and it just said, "Free Tutoring for Your English-Related and Writing-Related Needs -- Just Come In, It's All Free."	我们坐在办公室等，到了下午两点半 我们把一块牌放在门口的过道上， 上面写着："免费提供英语及写作辅导—— 一切免费，欢迎光临。"
And we thought, "Oh, they're going to storm the gates, they're gonna love it." And they didn't.	开始时我们想：孩子们一定会飞奔到这里来的 他们一定会喜欢这地方。可是，我们看不到有孩子过来
And so we waited, we sat at the tables, we waited and waited.	我们坐在桌边等啊等，就是看不到孩子的影子
And everybody was becoming very discouraged because it was weeks and weeks that we waited, really, where nobody came in.	我们都感到非常沮丧 我们一连等了好多个星期，就是等不到一个孩子
And then somebody alerted us to the fact that maybe there was a trust gap, because we were operating behind a pirate supply store.	这时候，有人提醒我们说 也许是因为信任的问题 毕竟我们是一个卖海盗用品的店铺啊
We never put it together, you know?	这一点我们倒是没有想到
And so then, around that time, I persuaded a woman named Nineveh Caligari, a longtime San Francisco educator -- she was teaching in Mexico City, she had all the experience necessary, knew everything about education, was connected with all the teachers and community members in the neighborhood -- I convinced her to move up from Mexico City where she was teaching.	于是，我找到了妮涅娃·卡里咖丽 她在旧金山当过老师 后来到了新墨西哥洲去教书了 她经验十足 懂得教育的门道 跟我们那个社区的老师和社会名流也很熟 我劝她搬回旧金山
She took over as executive director.	让她担任整个项目的执行主任
Immediately, she made the inroads with the teachers and the parents and the students and everything, and so suddenly it was actually full every day.	很快的，她就跟当地的老师 家长、学生以及相关人士做好了思想工作 后来我们的辅导中心就变得天天都人满为患了
And what we were trying to offer every day was one-on-one attention.	我们每天都努力为学生提供 一对一的辅导
The goal was to have a one-to-one ratio with every one of these students.	我们务求做到给予每一位学生"一对一"的关注
You know, it's been proven that 35 to 40 hours a year with one-on-one attention, a student can get one grade level higher.	因为，研究表明一年当中 假如能够给予学生35－40个小时的"一对一"辅导 学生的学习成绩会跃升一个层次
And so most of these students, English is not spoken in the home.	来到这里的孩子，他们在家里大多不说英语
They come there, many times their parents -- you can't see it, but there's a church pew that I bought in a Berkeley auction right there -- the parents will sometimes watch while their kids are being tutored.	他们的家长有时也会随着他们一同到来 也许你在画面上看不到，但是我们准备了一张长椅子 那是我在伯克莱的一次拍卖会上买下来的 家长们有时会来看自己的孩子
So that was the basis of it, was one-on-one attention.	我们说最根本一点就是 一对一的关注
And we found ourselves full every day with kids.	我们每天都被孩子们围着，简直忙不过来
If you're on Valencia Street within those few blocks at around 2 p.m., 2:30 p.m., you will get run over, often, by the kids and their big backpacks, or whatever, actually running to this space, which is very strange, because it's school, in a way.	假如你是住在瓦伦西亚街附近的话，每到下午2：30 要是你到街上走 你会迎头撞上背着书包向着辅导中心跑的孩子 这看起来有点不正常，因为那里已经变成"半个学校"了
But there was something psychological happening there that was just a little bit different.	因为去那里已经变成一种情感上的需要 这就是我们的辅导中心的独特之处
And the other thing was, there was no stigma.	另外，去辅导中心不会带有任何的羞辱成分
Kids weren't going into the "Center-for-Kids-That-Need-More-Help," or something like that. It was 826 Valencia.	因为孩子们不是去上"差等生补习班" 或者是诸如此类的机构。那里只有一个名字："826瓦伦西亚"
First of all, it was a pirate supply store, which is insane.	首先，那里是一家卖海盗用品的店，这一点就够呛了
And then secondly, there's a publishing company in the back.	此外，我们在房间的后面还有一个出版机构
And so our interns were actually working at the same tables very often, and shoulder-to-shoulder, computer-next-to-computer with the students.	所以说，我们的实习生经常也是 坐在同样一张桌子边 他们的旁边就是参加辅导的孩子
And so it became a tutoring center -- publishing center, is what we called it -- and a writing center.	所以说，那里不仅仅是辅导中心 出版中心 还是一个写作中心
They go in, and they might be working with a high school student actually working on a novel -- because we had very gifted kids, too.	他们来到这里以后也许是和高中生一起 完成一部小说——我们有天赋过人的孩子
So there's no stigma.	根本不会有羞辱的存在
They're all working next to each other. It's all a creative endeavor.	大家坐在一起，那是一种充满创意的环境
They're seeing adults. They're modeling their behavior.	孩子们看着身边的大人，也要学习学习
These adults, they're working in their field.	而这些大人，虽然他们也在忙着自己的事情
They can lean over, ask a question of one of these adults and it all sort of feeds on each other.	孩子们可以把头探过来，问大人问题 这样一来，相互都可以在交流中提炼出价值
There's a lot of cross-pollination. The only problem, especially for the adults working at McSweeney's who hadn't necessarily bought into all of this when they signed up, was that there was just the one bathroom.	大人和孩子之间是可以相互感染的。但是 我们也遇到了一个令我们头痛的问题 特别是对于麦思维尼出版机构的员工来说，更是如此 因为他们当初来到这里时并没有想到会遇到今日之种种。 我们那地方只有一个洗手间
With like 60 kids a day, this is a problem.	而我们每天都会迎来六十多名学生，这真是一个难题
But you know, there's something about the kids finishing their homework in a given day, working one-on-one, getting all this attention -- they go home, they're finished. They don't stall.	但是，当你看到孩子们完成功课 每一天都能受到大人们的悉心指导 回到家后，已经不需为功课而烦恼
They don't do their homework in front of the TV.	不需坐在电视机前面写作业
They're allowed to go home at 5:30 p.m., enjoy their family, enjoy other hobbies, get outside, play.	每天下午五点半就可以回家，跟家人共度美好时光 做自己爱干的事情，或者是到外面去玩
And that makes a happy family.	这样一来我们不就有一个和谐的家庭了吗？
A bunch of happy families in a neighborhood is a happy community.	社区里的和谐家庭多了，社区不也更和睦吗？
A bunch of happy communities tied together is a happy city and a happy world.	只要这样的和睦社区越来越多，我们不是有希望看到一个和平的都市以及和平的世界吗？
So the key to it all is homework!	所以说，一切的关键在于让孩子完成作业！
There you have it, you know -- one-on-one attention.	还有，一对一的专注辅导
So we started off with about 12 volunteers, and then we had about 50, and then a couple hundred.	我们一开始有12名志愿者 后来有50人 再后来就增加到了几百人
And we now have 1,400 volunteers on our roster.	现在，有1400个志愿者加入了我们
And we make it incredibly easy to volunteer.	我们力求让志愿者的参与变得非常简单
The key thing is, even if you only have a couple of hours a month, those two hours shoulder-to-shoulder, next to one student, concentrated attention, shining this beam of light on their work, on their thoughts and their self-expression, is going to be absolutely transformative, because so many of the students have not had that ever before.	最重要一点是，哪怕你每个月才能挤出两个小时的空余时间 那用来做一对一辅导已经足够 你就坐在孩子的旁边 给孩子以指点 让孩子在思想上和表达上变得更优秀 这样的片刻对于孩子而言是具有洗心革面之意义的 因为很多孩子从来都没有过这样的体验
So we said, "Even if you have two hours one Sunday every six months, it doesn't matter. That's going to be enough."	所以我们说，"即便你每半年只有两小时的空余时间 也不要紧，那已经足够了。
So that's partly why the tutor corps grew so fast.	也正是因为这样的安排，我们的志愿者队伍增长很快
Then we said, "Well, what are we going to do with the space during the day, because it has to be used before 2:30 p.m.?"	后来我们想， 白天的时间是不是也把辅导中心利用起来 是不是在下午两点半孩子放学之前也把这地方用起来
So we started bringing in classes during the day.	所以我们决定要在日间开课
So every day, there's a field trip where they together create a book -- you can see it being typed up above.	每天，都会有孩子来到这里做实习，在大人的指导下写书 你可以看到屏幕上显示的就是他们写的书
This is one of the classes getting way too excited about writing.	这是其中一个班，他们还真的为写作而疯狂呢
You just point a camera at a class, and it always looks like this.	不管什么时候，你拿着一台摄像机对着孩子，总会见到这样的表情 并且这样的表情长期如此
So this is one of the books that they do.	这是他们做成的一本书
Notice the title of the book, "The Book That Was Never Checked Out: Titanic."	大家注意看那书名 《从未被借出的一本书：泰坦尼克》
And the first line of that book is, "Once there was a book named Cindy that was about the Titanic."	书的第一句话是这样的：从前，有一本书，书名叫《辛迪》 写的是"泰坦尼克"的故事
So, meanwhile, there's an adult in the back typing this up, taking it completely seriously, which blows their mind.	此外，我们还有大人坐在后面把这些文字敲到电脑里 一切都十分认真，简直是把孩子乐坏了
So then we still had more tutors to use.	不过，我们的志愿者人数还是很多
This is a shot of just some of the tutors during one of the events.	这是某次活动上的照片
The teachers that we work with -- and everything is different to teachers -- they tell us what to do.	我们跟老师紧密合作 老师们知道该怎么做
We went in there thinking, "We're ultimately, completely malleable. You're going to tell us.	我们就在一旁听 我说，"我们的人都是很灵活的，你们要我们怎么做我们就怎么做。"
The neighborhood's going to tell us, the parents are going to tell us.	我们也会听家长的意见
The teachers are going to tell us how we're most useful."	老师们会告诉我们怎么做才能最大限度的发挥志愿者的作用
So then they said, "Why don't you come into the schools?	有一次，他们问：你们是不是也把志愿者派到学校里去啊？
Because what about the students that wouldn't come to you, necessarily, who don't have really active parents that are bringing them in, or aren't close enough?" So then we started saying, "Well, we've got 1,400 people on our tutor roster.	因为总会有一些孩子没办法来你们这里啊 比如说，有些家长自己不甚积极 或者是孩子家住得比较远？ 于是我们想，我们有1400多位志愿者
Let's just put out the word." A teacher will say, "I need 12 tutors for the next five Sundays.	假如有老师跟我们联系说 接下来的五个星期我的课堂需要12名志愿者
We're working on our college essays. Send them in."	因为我们要准备大学入学申请的论文。你们把志愿者叫过来吧
So we put that out on the wire: 1,400 tutors.	于是我们就把消息发布出去
Whoever can make it signs up. They go in about a half an hour before the class.	只要是有空闲的都可以报名。他们只需在课前半个钟到课室就行了
The teacher tells them what to do, how to do it, what their training is, what their project is so far.	老师会告诉他们该做些什么 如何做：课堂内容是什么，要达到什么教学目的
They work under the teacher's guide, and it's all in one big room.	志愿者在老师的指导之下开展辅导 他们到一个大课室
And that's actually the brunt of what we do is, people going straight from their workplace, straight from home, straight into the classroom and working directly with the students.	这现已成为我们做得最大的一件事 志愿者直接由家里、公司来到学校 直接走进课堂 跟学生一起工作
So then we're able to work with thousands and thousands of more students.	通过这样的方式，我们能够接触到更多的学生
Then another school said, "Well, what if we just give you a classroom and you can staff it all day?"	接着又有一所学校跟我们说，"我们腾出一间教室给你们用怎么样？" 你们可以把志愿者请过来，一整天都用那个教室啊？
So this is the Everett Middle School Writers' Room, where we decorated it in buccaneer style.	这是埃维雷特高中的写作室 那里也装点成海盗店的模样
It's right off the library. And there we serve all 529 kids in this middle school.	它就在图书馆隔壁，我们可以给529名学生提供写作课程 就是整一个学校的学生
This is their newspaper, the "Straight-Up News," that has an ongoing column from Mayor Gavin Newsom in both languages -- English and Spanish.	这是他们做的报纸，叫《有话直说》 上面有来自市长纽绅的专栏 并且是以英语西班牙语双语写的
So then one day Isabel Allende wrote to us and said, "Hey, why don't you assign a book with high school students?	有一天我们收到伊丝贝拉的信， 她说，"你们怎么不给孩子们布置一个写书的任务啊？
I want them to write about how to achieve peace in a violent world."	我希望看到孩子是怎么想象一个和平的世界的
And so we went into Thurgood Marshall High School, which is a school that we had worked with on some other things, and we gave that assignment to the students.	于是我们来到图耳鼓·马绍尔高中 我们曾经和那个高中有过合作 我们向学生布置了这个作业
And we said, "Isabel Allende is going to read all your essays at the end.	我们对孩子说，你们写的每一个字，伊丝贝拉都会去阅读
She's going to publish them in a book.	她会把你们的文章做成一本书
She's going to sponsor the printing of this book in paperback form.	她还会资助你们出版
It's going to be available in all the bookstores in the Bay Area and throughout the world, on Amazon and you name it."	你们的书将会在旧金山一带的书店上买得到 或者是通过亚马逊在线书店，在全球任何一个角落都能购买
So these kids worked harder than they've ever worked on anything in their lives, because there was that outside audience, there was Isabel Allende on the other end.	于是孩子们干的很用劲 他们之前干任何事情都没有这么认真 因为他们知道有一个潜在的读者 还有伊丝贝拉
I think we had about 170 tutors that worked on this book with them and so this worked out incredibly well.	我记得我们一共有170位志愿者参与了这个项目 这个项目运行非常顺利
We had a big party at the end.	最后我们还开了一个庆功会
This is a book that you can find anywhere. So that led to a series of these.	现在你在很多地方都能找到这书了。由此也开启了一系列的项目
You can see Amy Tan sponsored the next one, "I Might Get Somewhere."	谭恩美就表示要支持下一本书的出版 那书叫《也许我能到达某地》
And this became an ongoing thing. More and more books.	于是这成为了一个长期的项目，我们也出了很多书
Now we're sort of addicted to the book thing.	甚至是变得有点出书成瘾了
The kids will work harder than they've ever worked in their life if they know it's going to be permanent, know it's going to be on a shelf, know that nobody can diminish what they've thought and said, that we've honored their words, honored their thoughts with hundreds of hours of five drafts, six drafts -- all this attention that we give to their thoughts.	孩子们为了出书也会做得非常认真 因为他们知道那将会成为一种具有长久意义的东西。 知道他们写的书会出现在书架上 他们所想所写的东西没有人能够磨灭 我们尊重他们的表达以及他们的思想 他们花了几百个小时进行创作 前后改了五六遍 我们一直都在支持孩子们去表达自己的想法
And once they achieve that level, once they've written at that level, they can never go back.	而一旦他们的写作能力达到了一定的水平 通常就不会下降了
It's absolutely transformative.	这样的辅导对于孩子而言具有洗心革面的意义
And so then they're all sold in the store. This is near the planks.	孩子的书摆在店卖 就放在木板旁边
We sell all the student books.	这些书全都卖光了
Where else would you put them, right?	你还能想象把这些书放在别的地方吗
So we sell 'em, and then something weird had been happening with the stores. The store, actually -- even though we started out as just a gag -- the store actually made money.	我们把书都卖了 可是发生了奇怪的事情 就是我们这个辅导中心旁边的这店 虽然我们一开始的时候开这店只是为了好玩
So it was paying the rent.	但现在它居然也给我们带来利润了 我们就用这个来付房租
And maybe this is just a San Francisco thing -- I don't know, I don't want to judge.	也许这是只有在旧金山才会发生的怪事吧 我也不知道 也不想评论
But people would come in -- and this was before the pirate movies and everything!	但人们确实是会来到这里 并且那时候《加勒比海盗》还没有上映呢
It was making a lot of money. Not a lot of money, but it was paying the rent, paying a full-time staff member there.	就因为如此 这店给我们带来了许多收益 我们拿那些钱交租 也给这里的一位全职员工发工资
There's the ocean maps you can see on the left.	左边那个是海洋地图
And it became a gateway to the community.	这里就成为了社区的一个窗口
People would come in and say, "What the --?	人们经常进来问
What is this?" I don't want to swear on the web.	这里是搞 xx 什么的啊 这里我不说那个字了
Is that a rule? I don't know.	这是常规吗 我也不清楚
They would say, "What is this?"	他们会问 这是什么？
And people would come in and learn more about it.	进来的人们都会学到一些东西
And then right beyond -- there's usually a little chain there -- right beyond, they would see the kids being tutored.	而就在店的旁边 他们就会看到孩子正在上课
This is a field trip going on. And so they would be shopping, and they might be more likely to buy some lard, or millet for their parrot, or, you know, a hook, or hook protector for nighttime, all of these things we sell.	正好有个写作班正在上课 他们就在这里买东西 他们更多的是买一些喂鸟的食物 也有买钩子的 还有买钩子保护器的 反正就是我们这里的古怪的东西
So the store actually did really well.	我们可以说 这店办得还挺好的
But it brought in so many people -- teachers, donors, volunteers, everybody -- because it was street level. It was open to the public.	可是来的人太多了 教师、慈善人士、志愿者 什么人都有 因为那正好就在街角 并且是对外开放的
It wasn't a non-profit buried, you know, on the 30th floor of some building downtown. It was right in the neighborhood that it was serving, and it was open all the time to the public.	而不是像一些公益组织那样 隐藏在市中心30层高的大楼深处 它就在社区里 就是给社区提供服务的 并且时刻都向社区开放
So, it became this sort of weird, happy accident.	这时候 奇怪的事情又发生了
So all the people I used to know in Brooklyn, they said, "Well, why don't we have a place like that here?"	我过去在布鲁克林认识的那些朋友 他们也想搞个这样的辅导机构
And a lot of them had been former educators or would-be educators, so they combined with a lot of local designers, local writers, and they just took the idea independently and they did their own thing.	并且他们很多以前就是当教师的 或者是马上就要成为教师的 于是他们联合当地的一些设计师 教师 所有的点子都是他们自己想的 一切都是他们自己亲力亲为
They didn't want to sell pirate supplies.	不过他们不想卖海盗用品
They didn't think that that was going to work there.	因为那边没有这个需求
So, knowing the crime-fighting community in New York, they opened the Brooklyn Superhero Supply Company.	但是他们想到了纽约市经常搞反暴力活动 于是就开设了布鲁克林超级英雄专卖店
This is Sam Potts' great design that did this.	这是山姆·博茨设计的
And this was to make it look sort of like one of those keysmith's shops that has to have every service they've ever offered, you know, all over there.	他特意设计成这个模样 就是仿照五金店 让人感觉里面应有尽有 想买什么都能找到
So they opened this place. Inside, it's like a Costco for superheroes -- all the supplies in kind of basic form.	于是这店开张了 里面有如一家百货公司 各种简单的英雄装备都有
These are all handmade.	并且是手工制作的
These are all sort of repurposed other products, or whatever.	大多是废物利用
All the packaging is done by Sam Potts.	而所有的包装都是出自山姆·博茨的手
So then you have the villain containment unit, where kids put their parents. You have the office.	还有这个困兽笼子 孩子们把自己的父母丢到里面去 还有办公室
This is a little vault -- you have to put your product in there, it goes up an electric lift and then the guy behind the counter tells you that you have to recite the vow of heroism, which you do, if you want to buy anything. And it limits, really, their sales.	还有这里 你把商品交给店员 商品就随着升降机上升 柜台后面那个店员就会告诉你 要作一番英雄宣誓 凡是要买东西的 都必须宣誓 这个也多少影响了他们的收入
Personally, I think it's a problem.	我个人以为那是一个问题
Because they have to do it hand on heart and everything.	毕竟他们做这些商品花了不少心机
These are some of the products. These are all handmade.	看这些就是他们的商品 都是手工制作的
This is a secret identity kit.	这是秘密身份认证卡片
If you want to take on the identity of Sharon Boone, one American female marketing executive from Hoboken, New Jersey. It's a full dossier on everything you would need to know about Sharon Boone.	假如你想充当Sharon Boone 她是来自于新泽西州霍伯昆的营销经理 这里一整个箱子都是 关于 Sharon Boone的东西
So, this is the capery where you get fitted for your cape, and then you walk up these three steel-graded steps and then we turn on three hydraulic fans from every side and then you can see the cape in action.	这个是披肩的外披 穿上以后 你踏上这个三层的台阶 我们就拧开风扇开关 看 那披肩神起来了
There's nothing worse than, you know, getting up there and the cape is bunching up or something like that.	不过也许披肩会鼓起来 那就最不如意了
So then, the secret door -- this is one of the shelves you don't see when you walk in, but it slowly opens.	还有这个秘密门 你刚进来的时候不会看到的 但是进来后你会慢慢发现
You can see it there in the middle next to all the grappling hooks.	在一大堆钩子中间 你会发现这个门
It opens and then this is the tutoring center in the back.	门的后面就是辅导中心
So you can see the full effect!	这就是全景
But this is -- I just want to emphasize -- locally funded, locally built.	这一切 我想强调说 都是当地人自己筹款 自己建起来的
All the designers, all of the builders, everybody was local, all the time was pro-bono.	所有的设计以及建造 都是靠本地人 并且是秉持公益的原则
I just came and visited and said, "Yes, you guys are doing great," or whatever. That was it. You can see the time in all five boroughs of New York in the back.	我刚去过那边 对他们说 你们做得真棒 反正就是这么说 你可以在墙上看到纽约市的五个时区
So this is the space during tutoring hours.	在不同的辅导课程之间是有时间间隔的
It's very busy. Same principles: one-on-one attention, complete devotion to the students' work and a boundless optimism and sort of a possibility of creativity and ideas.	每天都很忙 他们会坚持一些原则 如一对一的辅导 全身心的关注孩子的作业 洋溢着乐观情绪 以及创意
And this switch is flicked in their heads when they walk through those 18 feet of this bizarre store, right?	这个想法 就是他们在走访店铺的时候想到的
So it's school, but it's not school.	那是一个学校 又不是一个学校
It's clearly not school, even though they're working shoulder-to-shoulder on tables, pencils and papers, whatever.	很显然它不是一所学校 但是老师和孩子却是肩并肩的在一起学习
This is one of the students, Khaled Hamdan.	我们有个孩子 叫卡雷德·翰丹
You can read this quote.	你可以看看这段话
Addicted to video games and TV. Couldn't concentrate at home.	我以前沉迷于电子游戏和电视 在家里不能集中精神
Came in. Got this concentrated attention.	后来我到了这里 得到了老师的密切关照
And he couldn't escape it.	他就再也离不开这里了
So, soon enough, he was writing. He would finish his homework early -- got really addicted to finishing his homework early.	不久后 他开始写东西了 他可以很早的完成功课 并且非常认真的去做功课
It's an addictive thing to sort of be done with it, and to have it checked, and to know he's going to achieve the next thing and be prepared for school the next day.	要知道 做这事情是会变得上瘾的 他还可以让老师帮他看作业做得对不对 这样他就能更好的准备第二天的课
So he got hooked on that, and then he started doing other things.	简直是做作业上瘾了 后来还做了别的事情
He's now been published in five books.	现在他已经出了五本书
He co-wrote a mockumentary about failed superheroes called "Super-Has-Beens."	还与别人合作写了个搞笑剧本 讲述失败的英雄故事 剧本的名字是"昨日英雄"
He wrote a series on "Penguin Balboa," which is a fighting -- a boxing -- penguin.	他还写了个企鹅勇士系列 讲述一种擅长打架的企鹅的故事
And then he read aloud just a few weeks ago to 500 people at Symphony Space, at a benefit for 826 New York. So he's there every day.	几周前 他在交响乐空间那里大声念给500人听 那是"826纽约"给予他的奖励
He's evangelical about it. He brings his cousins in now.	现在他每天都去 还向别人宣传"826纽约" 也把自己的妹妹带到那里了
There's four family members that come in every day.	每天一家四口都会来
So, I'll go through really quickly.	好 时间不多 我快速的过一遍
This is L.A., The Echo Park Time Travel Mart: "Whenever You Are, We're Already Then."	这是洛杉矶 回声公园时间旅行商店 "不管你在什么时候 我们都在那里。"
This is sort of a 7-Eleven for time travelers.	就像是专门为时间旅行的人士开的7－11连锁店
So you see everything: it's exactly as a 7-Eleven would be.	你可以看到所有的东西 就是跟7－11差不多的
Leeches. Mammoth chunks. They even have their own Slurpee machine: "Out of Order. Come Back Yesterday."	有水蛭酱 猛犸酱 他们还有个思乐冰机器 "商品卖完。欢迎明天再来。"
Anyway. So I'm going to jump ahead.	好 我要尽快将完
These are spaces that are only affiliated with us, doing this same thing: Word St. in Pittsfield, Massachusetts; Ink Spot in Cincinnati; Youth Speaks, San Francisco, California, which inspired us; Studio St. Louis in St. Louis; Austin Bat Cave in Austin; Fighting Words in Dublin, Ireland, started by Roddy Doyle, this will be open in April.	这些都是当地人自己搞的 他们不过是和我们保持一种联系 因为我们做的是同样的事情 这是麻省彼兹菲特的"字街" 辛辛那提的"墨水点" 圣佛朗西斯科的"青年之声" 那里也给我们带来了启发 还有圣路易斯的"圣路易斯工作室" 奥斯丁蝙蝠谷 爱尔兰都柏林的"字戏" 那是罗迪·多利办的 将会在4月正式开放
Now I'm going to the TED Wish -- is that okay?	好 现在我要讲我的TED愿望了 可以吗
All right, I've got a minute. So, the TED Wish: I wish that you -- you personally and every creative individual and organization you know -- will find a way to directly engage with a public school in your area and that you'll then tell the story of how you got involved, so that within a year we have a thousand examples -- a thousand! -- of transformative partnerships.	好 只剩一分钟 我的TED愿望是 我希望你们 包括你们自身以及一切富于创意的朋友 以及你们个人认识的一些组织 都能参与到你所在地区的学校教育中去 然后你来给我们讲述你的故事 我们希望一年之后能够收集到1000个这样的故事 没错 就是1000个 1000个给学生带来改变的故事
Profound leaps forward!	要让学生真的取得进步啊
And these can be things that maybe you're already doing.	也许你们当中有些人现在已经在做这样的事情
I know that so many people in this room are already doing really interesting things.	我知道这个会议厅里有 很多人 都在做一些有意义的事情
I know that for a fact. So, tell us these stories and inspire others on the website.	我只是知道有这么一回事 但是我希望 你们给我们讲述你们的故事
We created a website.	我们建立了一个网站
I'm going to switch to "we," and not "I," hope: We hope that the attendees of this conference will usher in a new era of participation in our public schools.	好 现在我转为用"我们"而不是"我" 我们希望 参加这个会议的人们 能够引领社区教育走向新的纪元
We hope that you will take the lead in partnering your innovative spirit and expertise with that of innovative educators in your community.	我们希望你们能够成为这样一场革新的领跑者 用你们的创意以及专业技能 通过当地的教师 为社区教育提供服务
Always let the teachers lead the way.	记住 永远都要让教师做决定
They will tell you how to be useful. I hope that you'll step in and help out.	他们才知道怎么样的帮助才是最合适的
There are a million ways.	可以有数以百万计的方式去做
You can walk up to your local school and consult with the teachers. They'll always tell you how to help.	你可以去到你所在地区的公立学校 跟那里的老师讲 他们会告诉你可以做什么
So, this is with Hot Studio in San Francisco, they did this phenomenal job.	这个是圣佛朗西斯科的热工作室做的 他们做得很棒
This website is already up, it's already got a bunch of stories, a lot of ideas. It's called "Once Upon a School," which is a great title, I think.	这个网上现已有一些故事 很多不同的想法 它的名字是"从前有一所学校" 我认为那是个很好的标题
This site will document every story, every project that comes out of this conference and around the world. So you go to the website, you see a bunch of ideas you can be inspired by and then you add your own projects once you get started.	每一个上传的故事都会出现在这个网上 这些故事将来自你们中间以及世界各地 你可以登陆进去看看 看那些故事能否给你一些启发 然后你一旦决定要参与此间 你就马上 把你的想法写下 贴到那里
Hot Studio did a great job in a very tight deadline. So, visit the site.	热工作室在时间紧张的情况下做出这么好的网站 实在不简单 一定要去看看
If you have any questions, you can ask this guy, who's our director of national programs. He'll be on the phone.	要是有问题 可以咨询这个家伙 他是我们的全国项目负责人 他会在电话上为你解答疑问的
You email him, he'll answer any question you possibly want.	也可以给他写电邮 他也会回复的
And he'll get you inspired and get you going and guide you through the process so that you can affect change.	他会给你一点启发 让你知道该怎么做 也会全程关注你的项目进展 帮助你
And it can be fun! That's the point of this talk -- it needn't be sterile. It needn't be bureaucratically untenable.	并且这一切都可以是好玩的 这就是这个演讲之精髓 不是固定一个模式 也不必怕官僚作风
You can do and use the skills that you have.	你完全可以运用你的技能去参与
The schools need you. The teachers need you.	学校需要你 老师需要你
Students and parents need you. They need your actual person: your physical personhood and your open minds and open ears and boundless compassion, sitting next to them, listening and nodding and asking questions for hours at a time.	学生以及家长也需要你 他们要你站在他们身边 也希望得到你在心灵上给予他们指导 只要你用心去倾听 再加上一颗同情心 坐在孩子身边 给予他们肯定的暗示 每次是一连几个小时 回答孩子的疑问
Some of these kids just don't plain know how good they are: how smart and how much they have to say.	有些孩子其实就是不知道自己能力是多么强啊 也不知道其实他们是多么聪明 有那么多话要说
You can tell them. You can shine that light on them, one human interaction at a time. So we hope you'll join us.	你可以告诉他们 你可以成为他们成长的明灯 每次就一对一的关怀 希望大家能够一起合作 帮助孩子
Thank you so much.	谢谢
Today I want to talk about design, but not design as we usually think about it.	今天我们要来谈谈改造, 但是不是那种我们平时谈的那种改造。
I want to talk about what is happening now in our scientific, biotechnological culture, where, for really the first time in history, we have the power to design bodies, to design animal bodies, to design human bodies.	我想探讨的是那些现在正在 发生在我们科学界，生物科技领域的事， 这里，是历史上真正的第一次， 我们有能力来改造生物体， 改造动物体， 改造人体。
In the history of our planet, there have been three great waves of evolution.	在我们地球的历史上， 已经经历了三次大规模的进化潮。
The first wave of evolution is what we think of as Darwinian evolution.	第一次大规模的进化潮 是我们熟知的达尔文式进化。
So, as you all know, species lived in particular ecological niches and particular environments, and the pressures of those environments selected which changes, through random mutation in species, were going to be preserved.	那是，就一如你们所知的， 生物生活在特殊的生物环境 和特殊的生态环境下， 这些环境的生存压力 挑选出那些改变了的， 通过随机变异的生物体， 来进一步生存。
Then human beings stepped out of the Darwinian flow of evolutionary history and created the second great wave of evolution, which was we changed the environment in which we evolved.	接着人类跳出了 达尔文式进化历史的潮流 并创造出第二个大规模的进化潮， 就是我们改变那些 让我们进化的环境。
We altered our ecological niche by creating civilization.	我们通过创造文明 从而改变了我们的生物环境。
And that has been the second great -- couple 100,000 years, 150,000 years -- flow of our evolution.	这就是第二个大规模的-- 好几万年前的，15万年前-- 进化潮流。
By changing our environment, we put new pressures on our bodies to evolve.	通过改变我们的环境， 我们找寻到新的压力来 促使我们进化。
Whether it was through settling down in agricultural communities, all the way through modern medicine, we have changed our own evolution.	无论是通过经历农业社会， 一直经历到现代医学社会， 我们已经改变了我们的演变历程。
Now we're entering a third great wave of evolutionary history, which has been called many things: "intentional evolution," "evolution by design" -- very different than intelligent design -- whereby we are actually now intentionally designing and altering the physiological forms that inhabit our planet.	现在我们正步入进化史上第三次 大规模进化潮， 这次进化有很多别称： 意识性进化， 改造性进化-- 和智能改造很不同-- 借此我们实际现在 正在有意识的改造和改变 栖息在我们地球的生物的生物形态。
So I want to take you through a kind of whirlwind tour of that and then at the end talk a little bit about what some of the implications are for us and for our species, as well as our cultures, because of this change.	所以我想带大家经历一场进化的暴风之旅 并接着在最后讨论一些 对于我们，对于我们种族， 同时也对于我们的文明会有什么样的影响， 从这次转变。
Now we actually have been doing it for a long time.	现在我们实际上已经转变了很久了。
We started selectively breeding animals many, many thousands of years ago.	我们在数千年之前 就开始有选择的喂养动物。
And if you think of dogs for example, dogs are now intentionally-designed creatures.	如果你以狗作为例子来思考， 狗是有意识的被改造的生物。
There isn't a dog on this earth that's a natural creature.	在生态环境下地球上没有狗。
Dogs are the result of selectively breeding traits that we like.	狗是我们 根据我们喜好而选择性喂养的产物。
But we had to do it the hard way in the old days by choosing offspring that looked a particular way and then breeding them.	但是我们在过去不得不用一种艰苦的方式 来选择那些有着特定特征的后代 来喂养它们。
We don't have to do it that way anymore.	我们再也不必在这样做了。
This is a beefalo.	这是个皮弗娄牛。
A beefalo is a buffalo-cattle hybrid.	皮弗娄牛是水牛和肉牛的杂交种。
And they are now making them, and someday, perhaps pretty soon, you will have beefalo patties in your local supermarket.	他们现在正在研究它们， 到了某天，也许会很快， 你会在你当地的超市里 吃到皮弗娄牛肉饼。
This is a geep, a goat-sheep hybrid.	这是头山绵羊， 山羊，绵羊的杂交种。
The scientists that made this cute little creature ended up slaughtering it and eating it afterwards.	创造出这可爱小东西的科学家们 最后把它屠宰了随后吃了它。
I think they said it tasted like chicken.	我记得他们说它尝起来像鸡肉。
This is a cama.	这是匹卡马驼。
A cama is a camel-llama hybrid, created to try to get the hardiness of a camel with some of the personality traits of a llama.	卡马驼是骆驼，美洲驼的杂交种， 为了尝试使之有骆驼的耐劳力 和美洲驼的一部分性格特点 而创造。
And they are now using these in certain cultures.	它们现已在某些环境下得到利用。
Then there's the liger.	这是狮虎兽，
This is the largest cat in the world -- the lion-tiger hybrid.	世界上最大的猫科动物-- 狮子，老虎的杂交种。
It's bigger than a tiger.	它的体型比老虎的大。
And in the case of the liger, there actually have been one or two that have been seen in the wild.	这个类狮虎兽的案例， 实际上在野生环境下已经被观察到一两次了。
But these were created by scientists using both selective breeding and genetic technology.	但是这些科学家创造的那些生物 使用了选择性喂养和基因技术。
And then finally, everybody's favorite, the zorse.	接着最后，大家的最爱， 卓斯马，
None of this is Photoshopped. These are real creatures.	没有一个是被修改过的；它们是真实的生物。
And so one of the things we've been doing is using genetic enhancement, or genetic manipulation, of normal selective breeding pushed a little bit through genetics.	我们已经掌握的其中一种技术 是使用基因改良， 或者基因操控， 加以常规的选择性喂养 来推进基因的改良。
And if that were all this was about, then it would be an interesting thing.	如果这就是所有的全部， 那它是一件有趣的事。
But something much, much more powerful is happening now.	但是一些更加有影响力的事 正在发生。
These are normal mammalian cells genetically engineered with a bioluminescent gene taken out of deep-sea jellyfish.	正常的哺乳类动物细胞 和从深海水母上提取出的荧光基因 基因程度上融合。
We all know that some deep-sea creatures glow.	我们都知道一些深海动物发光。
Well, they've now taken that gene, that bioluminescent gene, and put it into mammal cells.	嗯，他们现在已经提取出这基因，这生物发光的基因， 并把它融入哺乳动物细胞。
These are normal cells.	这是正常的细胞。
And what you see here is these cells glowing in the dark under certain wavelengths of light.	这里你看到的 是在黑暗中发出 特定波长的光的细胞。
Once they could do that with cells, they could do it with organisms.	一旦他们能在细胞上应用，他们也能用在生物体上。
So they did it with mouse pups, kittens.	于是他们把它用在幼鼠上， 小猫上。
And by the way, the reason the kittens here are orange and these are green is because that's a bioluminescent gene from coral, while this is from jellyfish.	顺道提一下，小猫呈现橙色小鼠呈现绿色 是因为一个的发光基因来自珊瑚， 另外一个来自水母。
They did it with pigs.	他们把它用在猪上。
They did it with puppies.	他们把它用在小狗上，
And, in fact, they did it with monkeys.	并且，实际上， 他们把它用在了猴子上。
And if you can do it with monkeys -- though the great leap in trying to genetically manipulate is actually between monkeys and apes -- if they can do it in monkeys, they can probably figure out how to do it in apes, which means they can do it in human beings.	如果你能把它作用在猴子上-- 虽然从猴子到猿事实上对于基因操作 是巨大的跃进-- 如果他们能把它作用在猴子上， 他们就可能想出如果作用在猿上， 这就意味着他们能让它作用在人类上。
In other words, it is theoretically possible that before too long we will be biotechnologically capable of creating human beings that glow in the dark.	换句话说，理论上这是可能的 在很久以后我们生物技术上能够 创造出能在黑夜 发光的人类。
Be easier to find us at night.	在夜晚就更容易发现我们。
And in fact, right now in many states, you can go out and you can buy bioluminescent pets.	实际上，现在很多州内， 你能出去买到生物荧光的宠物。
These are zebra fish. They're normally black and silver.	这些是斑马鱼。正常的他们是黑色和银色的。
These are zebra fish that have been genetically engineered to be yellow, green, red, and they are actually available now in certain states.	这些斑马鱼已经被基因重组 成黄色，绿色，红色， 它们实际上如今在一些州已经能买到。
Other states have banned them.	另外一些州则被禁止。
Nobody knows what to do with these kinds of creatures.	没人知道对这种生物荧光怎么做。
There is no area of the government -- not the EPA or the FDA -- that controls genetically-engineered pets.	政府间没有相关部门--这不归环境保护局或者食品药物监管局管-- 来控制基因改造过的宠物。
And so some states have decided to allow them, some states have decided to ban them.	所以一些州决定允许它们， 一些州则决定禁止它们。
Some of you may have read about the FDA's consideration right now of genetically-engineered salmon.	你们中的一些如今可能了解 食品药物监管局对于 基因改造的鲑鱼的焦虑。
The salmon on top is a genetically engineered Chinook salmon, using a gene from these salmon and from one other fish that we eat, to make it grow much faster using a lot less feed.	上面的鲑鱼 是被基因改造的且努克鲑鱼， 利用了这种鲑鱼 和另外一种我们食用的鱼的基因 来让它长的更快 吃的更少。
And right now the FDA is trying to make a final decision on whether, pretty soon, you could be eating this fish -- it'll be sold in the stores.	如今食物药品监管局正试着作出最后的决定 关于是否你可以食用这种鱼-- 这种鱼就会被出售。
And before you get too worried about it, here in the United States, the majority of food you buy in the supermarket already has genetically-modified components to it.	在你太担心它之前， 在美国， 你超市里买到的大多数食物 在包装上已经有基因改造标示。
So even as we worry about it, we have allowed it to go on in this country -- much different in Europe -- without any regulation, and even without any identification on the package.	所以即使你担心它， 我们已经允许它进入这个国家--不同于欧盟-- 毫无任何条例， 甚至包装上没有任何表明。
These are all the first cloned animals of their type.	这些全是第一批它们种群的 克隆动物。
So in the lower right here, you have Dolly, the first cloned sheep -- now happily stuffed in a museum in Edinburgh; Ralph the rat, the first cloned rat; CC the cat, for cloned cat; Snuppy, the first cloned dog -- Snuppy for Seoul National University puppy -- created in South Korea by the very same man that some of you may remember had to end up resigning in disgrace because he claimed he had cloned a human embryo, which he had not.	在右下方， 是多利，第一头克隆羊-- 如今在爱丁堡某个博物馆幸福的成为了标本； 拉尔夫鼠，第一只克隆鼠； 赛赛猫，克隆猫； 史努比，第一只克隆狗 首尔国立大学小狗史努比-- 生育于韩国 由也许你们还记得的南韩造假丑闻的同一个研究员 他最后不得不羞辱的辞职 因为他声称他已经克隆出人类细胞，其实他没有。
He actually was the first person to clone a dog, which is a very difficult thing to do, because dog genomes are very plastic.	他实际上是第一个 克隆狗的人，其实这是个很艰苦的工作， 因为狗的基因排列的可塑性是很强的。
This is Prometea, the first cloned horse.	这是普罗提耶，第一匹马。
It's a Haflinger horse cloned in Italy, a real "gold ring" of cloning, because there are many horses that win important races who are geldings.	它是在意大利的哈弗灵克隆马， 克隆界的一个金戒指， 因为很多赢得重要比赛的马 是被阉割的。
In other words, the equipment to put them out to stud has been removed.	换句话说，让他们成为种马的器官 已经被移除了。
But if you can clone that horse, you can have both the advantage of having a gelding run in the race and his identical genetic duplicate can then be put out to stud.	但是如果你能克隆这些马， 你能同时拥有阉割马在比赛上的优势 和它独特的基因组 来让它繁衍下一代。
These were the first cloned calves, the first cloned grey wolves, and then, finally, the first cloned piglets: Alexis, Chista, Carrel, Janie and Dotcom.	这些是第一批克隆的小牛， 第一批克隆的灰狼。 接着，最终， 第一批克隆的小猪： 亚历克西斯，克里斯蒂娜，卡雷尔，贾妮和道蒂肯。
In addition, we've started to use cloning technology to try to save endangered species.	另外，我们开始利用克隆技术 来试着拯救濒危物种。
This is the use of animals now to create drugs and other things in their bodies that we want to create.	现在也有作用于动物 使其能从体内制造药物和其他 我们想要的东西。
So with antithrombin in that goat -- that goat has been genetically modified so that the molecules of its milk actually include the molecule of antithrombin that GTC Genetics wants to create.	这山羊体内有抗凝血酶-- 这山羊已经被基因改造过了 所以它的羊奶分子 实际上包含了GTC基因 创造的抗凝血酶分子。
And then in addition, transgenic pigs, knockout pigs, from the National Institute of Animal Science in South Korea, are pigs that they are going to use, in fact, to try to create all kinds of drugs and other industrial types of chemicals that they want the blood and the milk of these animals to produce for them, instead of producing them in an industrial way.	接着，转基因的猪，改造过的猪， 来自于韩国的生物科学研究所， 实际上，他们用这些猪来 试着制造所有的药物 或其他工业化学物质 他们想要这些动物的 血和奶 来制造这些物质， 而不是用工业制造的方式。
These are two creatures that were created in order to save endangered species.	这两种生物 是为了拯救濒危生物 而被创造的。
The guar is an endangered Southeast Asian ungulate.	瓜尔牛 是东南亚濒危蹄类动物。
A somatic cell, a body cell, was taken from its body, gestated in the ovum of a cow, and then that cow gave birth to a guar.	一个肉细胞，身体细胞， 从它身上提取出来 在一头牛的子宫中怀孕， 接着让牛生下这头瓜尔牛。
Same thing happened with the mouflon, where it's an endangered species of sheep.	同样的事也发生在这摩弗伦羊上， 它是一种濒危的羊类动物。
It was gestated in a regular sheep body, which actually raises an interesting biological problem.	它在一头普通羊体内受孕， 这实际上产生了一个有趣的生物学问题。
We have two kinds of DNA in our bodies.	我们体内有两种DNA。
We have our nucleic DNA that everybody thinks of as our DNA, but we also have DNA in our mitochondria, which are the energy packets of the cell.	我们有我们细胞核内的DNA 就是每个人都知道的DNA， 但是我们也有DNA在我们线粒体内， 它是细胞的能量源。
That DNA is passed down through our mothers.	这种DNA是从母系上得到传承。
So really, what you end up having here is not a guar and not a mouflon, but a guar with cow mitochondria, and therefore cow mitochondrial DNA, and a mouflon with another species of sheep's mitochondrial DNA.	所以实际上，我们最终有的 不是一头瓜尔牛也不是头摩弗伦羊， 而是一头瓜尔牛 有着奶牛的线粒体， 因此有奶牛的线粒体DNA， 和一头摩弗伦羊有着另外一种羊的 线粒体DNA。
These are really hybrids, not pure animals.	它们实际上是杂交种，而不是纯种。
And it raises the question of how we're going to define animal species in the age of biotechnology -- a question that we're not really sure yet how to solve.	这产生了个我们如果定义生物种类的问题 在这生物技术的时代-- 一个我们还不确定如何解决的 问题。
This lovely creature is an Asian cockroach.	这些可爱的生物 是亚洲蟑螂。
And what they've done here is they've put electrodes in its ganglia and its brain and then a transmitter on top, and it's on a big computer tracking ball.	他们做的是 是把电极放进它的神经中枢和大脑 并在头部放置一个发射器， 它正在一个电脑追踪球上。
And now, using a joystick, they can send this creature around the lab and control whether it goes left or right, forwards or backwards.	现在，使用操纵杆， 他们能把这个生物送到 实验室四周 并控制他们向左或向右， 向前或者向后。
They've created a kind of insect bot, or bugbot.	他们已经制造出一种昆虫机器， 或者叫虫器。
It gets worse than that -- or perhaps better than that.	它可能比这个差一点--或者可能比这个好一点。
This actually is one of DARPA's very important -- DARPA is the Defense Research Agency -- one of their projects.	这是事实是DARPA的一个很重要的-- DARPA就是防御远景研究规划局-- 项目。
These goliath beetles are wired in their wings.	这些歌利亚甲虫 在翅膀上有天线。
They have a computer chip strapped to their backs, and they can fly these creatures around the lab.	它们的背上捆绑这一个电脑芯片， 他们就能在实验室周围飞行这种生物。
They can make them go left, right. They can make them take off.	他们能让它向左，向右。他们能让它停下来。
They can't actually make them land.	实际上他们还不能让它们着陆。
They put them about one inch above the ground, and then they shut everything off and they go pfft.	他们把它们降落到地面上一英尺高 接着他们就关闭所有设备后它们就砰然落下。
But it's the closest they can get to a landing.	但是这是他们能降落的最近高度。
And in fact, this technology has gotten so developed that this creature -- this is a moth -- this is the moth in its pupa stage, and that's when they put the wires in and they put in the computer technology, so that when the moth actually emerges as a moth, it is already prewired.	实际上，这项技术已经如此发达 以至于这生物-- 这是个蛾。 这是蛾的蛹期， 这也是他们设置天线 和电脑技术的时期。 所以当这蛾变成蛾的时候， 它已经被埋入天线好了。
The wires are already in its body, and they can just hook it up to their technology, and now they've got these bugbots that they can send out for surveillance.	天线已经在它的体内， 他们只要把它连接和他们的技术相连接， 它们就能变成虫器 它们就能被派出作为侦查。
They can put little cameras on them and perhaps someday deliver other kinds of ordinance to warzones.	他们可以把微型摄像头放在它们上面 或者某天运送 某种军用设备 去战场。
It's not just insects.	这还不仅仅用昆虫。
This is the ratbot, or the robo-rat by Sanjiv Talwar at SUNY Downstate.	这是个老鼠机器，或者叫机器鼠 由美国纽约州立大学的三久·塔瓦尔研发。
Again, it's got technology -- it's got electrodes going into its left and right hemispheres; it's got a camera on top of its head.	再一次，它包含了现代科技， 电极刺入它的左右半脑， 在它的头上有一个摄像机。
The scientists can make this creature go left, right.	科学家就能让这个生物 向左，向右走。
They have it running through mazes, controlling where it's going.	他们能让它穿行于迷宫中，控制它的走向。
They've now created an organic robot.	他们已经创造出了生物机器人。
The graduate students in Sanjiv Talwar's lab said, "Is this ethical?	在三久·塔瓦尔实验室的 研究生 说，"这是道德的吗？
We've taken away the autonomy of this animal."	我们剥夺了这动物的自主权。"
I'll get back to that in a minute.	我会过一会儿再讲这些。
There's also been work done with monkeys.	这技术也应用在猴子上。
This is Miguel Nicolelis of Duke.	这是杜克的米格尔·尼古拉雷思。
He took owl monkeys, wired them up so that a computer watched their brains while they moved, especially looking at the movement of their right arm.	他使用猫头鹰猴， 置入电极 电脑就能监视它们的大脑，当它们运动的时候， 特别是当他们右手活动的时候。
The computer learned what the monkey brain did to move its arm in various ways.	电脑会学习猴脑如何运作 用不同方式来移动它的手臂。
They then hooked it up to a prosthetic arm, which you see here in the picture, put the arm in another room.	接着他们把它连接到一个假肢上， 就如你能看到的一样， 把手臂放在另一个房间。
Pretty soon, the computer learned, by reading the monkey's brainwaves, to make that arm in the other room do whatever the monkey's arm did.	很快，电脑就学会，通过读取猴子的脑电波， 来控制另外那个房间的手臂 做任何猴子手臂在做的事情。
Then he put a video monitor in the monkey's cage that showed the monkey this prosthetic arm, and the monkey got fascinated.	接着他把一个视频显示器 放在猴子的笼子里 给猴子看这个假肢， 结果猴子对此很着迷。
The monkey recognized that whatever she did with her arm, this prosthetic arm would do.	猴子意识到无论她用手做什么， 那假肢也会做什么。
And eventually she was moving it and moving it, and eventually stopped moving her right arm and, staring at the screen, could move the prosthetic arm in the other room only with her brainwaves -- which means that monkey became the first primate in the history of the world to have three independent functional arms.	最后她会动一下动一下的， 最终会停止舞动她的右手 并，盯着屏幕， 挥舞来另外一个房间的假肢 仅仅靠她的脑电波-- 这意味着猴子 已经成为世界历史上一个拥有 三个独立功能手臂的灵长类动物。
And it's not just technology that we're putting into animals.	这不仅仅是个科级 让我们应用在动物上。
This is Thomas DeMarse at the University of Florida.	这是佛罗里达大学的托马斯·迪马斯。
He took 20,000 and then 60,000 disaggregated rat neurons -- so these are just individual neurons from rats -- put them on a chip.	它实验了2万，接着6万个 分解的鼠神经元-- 这些只是老鼠身上的分离的神经细胞-- 把它们放入芯片中。
They self-aggregated into a network, became an integrated chip.	它们会自主的连接到网络中， 成为一个完整的芯片。
And he used that as the IT piece of a mechanism which ran a flight simulator.	他把这 作为电脑芯片 来运行飞行模拟机械。
So now we have organic computer chips made out of living, self-aggregating neurons.	现在我们有了生物电脑芯片 由自主连接的神经细胞组成。
Finally, Mussa-Ivaldi of Northwestern took a completely intact, independent lamprey eel brain.	最后，西北部的穆萨·伊瓦尔迪 完成了一个完整无缺的， 独立的鳗鱼脑。
This is a brain from a lamprey eel.	这就是那个鳗鱼脑。
It is living -- fully-intact brain in a nutrient medium with these electrodes going off to the sides, attached photosensitive sensors to the brain, put it into a cart -- here's the cart, the brain is sitting there in the middle -- and using this brain as the sole processor for this cart, when you turn on a light and shine it at the cart, the cart moves toward the light; when you turn it off, it moves away.	它是活着的， 完整无损的大脑浸在营养液中 通体置入了电极， 连接着大脑的光敏感应器， 然后把它放进一个推车-- 这就是那个推车，大脑就在这个里面-- 并用这个大脑作为这推车的单独的处理器， 当你打开灯照射这推车的时候， 推车会向光源移动； 当你关闭光源，它就会远离。
It's photophilic.	它是趋光性的。
So now we have a complete living lamprey eel brain.	现在我们有了个完整的 活体的鳗鱼脑。
Is it thinking lamprey eel thoughts, sitting there in its nutrient medium?	它是不是用鳗鱼的思维方式， 而浸泡在这营养液中呢？
I don't know, but in fact it is a fully living brain that we have managed to keep alive to do our bidding.	我不知道， 但是事实是它是一个完整的活体的大脑 是我们试着让它保持生命活性 来行使我们的命令。
So, we are now at the stage where we are creating creatures for our own purposes.	所以，我们现在在一个 我们能够依照我们自己目的 创造生命的阶段。
This is a mouse created by Charles Vacanti of the University of Massachusetts.	这是只由马萨诸塞大学的查尔斯·瓦坎蒂 创造的老鼠。
He altered this mouse so that it was genetically engineered to have skin that was less immunoreactive to human skin, put a polymer scaffolding of an ear under it and created an ear that could then be taken off the mouse and transplanted onto a human being.	他改造了这老鼠 所以它是被基因改造过的 有着更少排斥性的人类肌肤， 在它内部有着支撑耳朵的聚合脚手架 这创造出的耳朵能从老鼠体内取出 并移植给人类。
Genetic engineering coupled with polymer physiotechnology coupled with xenotransplantation.	基因工程 伴随着聚合物理技术 协同异种移植技术。
This is where we are in this process.	这就是我们在这个过程中的进度。
Finally, not that long ago, Craig Venter created the first artificial cell, where he took a cell, took a DNA synthesizer, which is a machine, created an artificial genome, put it in a different cell -- the genome was not of the cell he put it in -- and that cell then reproduced as the other cell.	最后，不久之前， 克雷格·范特创造出了一个人工细胞， 他用了一个真的细胞，利用DNA合成器（读取了它的染色体）， 这是一种 能制造人工染色体的机器， 再把合成器放进另一个细胞中-- 另一个细胞的染色体和第一个细胞的是不一样的-- 当第二个细胞自己复制 就复制出了第一个细胞。
In other words, that was the first creature in the history of the world that had a computer as its parent -- it did not have an organic parent.	换句话说， 这是世界历史上一个用电脑作为 父母的生物-- 它没有生物意义上的父母。
And so, asks The Economist: "The first artificial organism and its consequences."	所以，《经济学家》提出 "第一个人工生物和它的结局。"
So you may have thought that the creation of life was going to happen in something that looked like that.	你可能会想 这生物的生命 会变成看起来像这样的东西。
But in fact, that's not what Frankenstein's lab looks like.	但是实际上，这不是弗兰肯斯坦实验室的样子。
This is what Frankenstein's lab looks like.	这才是弗兰肯斯坦实验室的原貌。
This is a DNA synthesizer, and here at the bottom are just bottles of A, T, C and G -- the four chemicals that make up our DNA chain.	这是个DNA合成器， 在这底部 有着标记着A,T,C和G的瓶子-- 这四种化学物质 组成了我们的DNA链。
And so, we need to ask ourselves some questions.	所以，我们需要问我们自己一些问题。
For the first time in the history of this planet, we are able to directly design organisms.	作为地球史上第一次 我们能够直接设计生物体。
We can manipulate the plasmas of life with unprecedented power, and it confers on us a responsibility.	我们用空前的力量操控 生物等离子体。 如果赋予我们的是一种责任。
Is everything okay?	那我们做什么都可以吗？
Is it okay to manipulate and create whatever creatures we want?	操控和制造任何我们想要的 生物是可行的吗？
Do we have free reign to design animals?	我们是否可以无约束 地设计生命体？
Do we get to go someday to Pets 'R' Us and say, "Look, I want a dog.	某天我们是否会根据喜好决定宠物 并说，"看，我想要一只狗。
I'd like it to have the head of a Dachshund, the body of a retriever, maybe some pink fur, and let's make it glow in the dark"?	我想要它有达克斯猎狗的头， 猎狗的身体， 也许一些粉色的毛， 再让它在黑暗中发光。"
Does industry get to create creatures who, in their milk, in their blood, and in their saliva and other bodily fluids, create the drugs and industrial molecules we want and then warehouse them as organic manufacturing machines?	是否工业创造生物 用它们的奶，血，和唾液 和其他的体液， 来生产我们需要的药物和工业分子 并圈养它们成为生物制药机器 是可以的？
Do we get to create organic robots, where we remove the autonomy from these animals and turn them just into our playthings?	是否我们创造出生命机器， 导致这些动物失去自由 来把它们变成我们的玩物是可以的？
And then the final step of this, once we perfect these technologies in animals and we start using them in human beings, what are the ethical guidelines that we will use then?	接着最后的一布， 一旦我们用动物体完善了这些科技 我们就会开始在人体上运用， 这就涉及到道德界限 我们是否可能用？
It's already happening. It's not science fiction.	这已经发生了；这不是科幻小说。
We are not only already using these things in animals, some of them we're already beginning to use on our own bodies.	我们不仅仅已经运用在动物体内， 我们也开始运用一部分 在我们人体内。
We are now taking control of our own evolution.	我们现在在说的是控制我们自己的进化。
We are directly designing the future of the species of this planet.	我们正直接的设计 星球上的未来的物种。
It confers upon us an enormous responsibility that is not just the responsibility of the scientists and the ethicists who are thinking about it and writing about it now.	它赋予了我们巨大的责任 而且不仅仅是对那些思考这问题 和论述这问题的科学家 和论理学家的责任。
It is the responsibility of everybody because it will determine what kind of planet and what kind of bodies we will have in the future.	它也是每个人的责任所在 因为它关系到未来我们将会有哪些生物体 居住在这星球。
Thanks.	谢谢
Let me introduce to you Rezero.	请允许我介绍Rezero
This little fellow was developed by a group of 10 undergraduate students at the Autonomous Systems Laboratory at ETH-Zurich.	这个小家伙是 瑞士苏黎世联邦理工学院 自控系统实验室的10位本科生 设计出来地
Our robot belongs to a family of robots called Ballbots.	这个机器人属于机器人家族里 球星机器人
Instead of wheels, a Ballbot is balancing and moving on one single ball.	球星机器人靠一个球体而不是轮子 来保持自身平衡和移动
The main characteristics of such a system is that there's one sole contact point to the ground.	这样一个系统的主要特征就是 它只有一个点接触地面
This means that the robot is inherently unstable.	这意味着 它一直处在不稳定状态
It's like when I am trying to stand on one foot.	就象是我金鸡独立 一样
You might ask yourself, what's the usefulness of a robot that's unstable?	你也许好奇，一个连站都站不稳的机器人 有什么用呢？
Now we'll explain that in a second.	稍后我回解释
Let me first explain how Rezero actually keeps his balance.	首先先解释下它是如何 保持平衡的
Rezero keeps his balance by constantly measuring his pitch angle with a sensor.	Rezero通过一个传感器不停地检测倾斜度 来维持自身平衡
He then counteracts and avoids toppling over by turning the motors appropriately.	它将通过适量转动马达 来抵消倾斜的角度防止倾倒
This happens 160 times per second, and if anything fails in this process, Rezero would immediately fall to the ground.	这个过程每秒要进行160次 稍有差错 它就会立刻摔倒在地
Now to move and to balance, Rezero needs to turn the ball.	要运动和平衡 Rezero就得转动球
The ball is driven by three special wheels that allow Rezero to move into any direction and also move around his own axis at the same time.	这个球是由三个特殊的轮子驱动 从而它能在各个方向上运动 并同时能够 自转
Due to his instability, Rezero is always in motion. Now here's the trick.	由于其不稳定性，所以它必须一直处于动态 妙就妙在这里
It's indeed exactly this instability that allows a robot to move very [dynamically].	正是这种不稳定性 赋予了它动态性
Let's play a little.	让我们看看
You may have wondered what happens if I give the robot a little push.	如果我推它一下 会有什么反应呢
In this mode, he's trying to maintain his position.	这个模式下 它会尝试 回归原位
For the next demo, I'd like you to introduce to my colleagues Michael, on the computer, and Thomas who's helping me onstage.	下一个演示 首先我想介绍我的同事 操作电脑的迈克尔 和台上的托马斯
In the next mode, Rezero is passive, and we can move him around.	下一个模式里Rezero是被动的 我们可以随意移动它
With almost no force I can control his position and his velocity.	我可以几乎不费力气地 控制其位置和速度
I can also make him spin.	我也能让它旋转起来
In the next mode, we can get Rezero to follow a person.	下一个模式 Rezero跟着人走
He's now keeping a constant distance to Thomas.	它现在与托马斯保持一段恒定距离
This works with a laser sensor that's mounted on top of Rezero.	这是通过它顶端的传感器 来做到的
With the same method, we can also get him to circle a person.	类似的我们也能让它 围着一个人转
We call this the orbiting mode.	我们称之为轨道模式
All right, thank you, Thomas.	谢谢，托马斯
Now, what's the use of this technology?	那么这个技术的使用价值是什么？
For now, it's an experiment, but let me show you some possible future applications.	目前它还只是个试验 但是我可以展示一下它的应用前景
Rezero could be used in exhibitions or parks.	Rezero可以在展示会和公园里
With a screen it could inform people or show them around in a fun and entertaining way.	通过屏幕给人们指引或 带着大家愉快地四处转转
In a hospital, this device could be used to carry around medical equipment.	医院里这个设备可以成为 便携医疗设备
Due to the Ballbot system, it has a very small footprint and it's also easy to move around.	因为是球形机器人系统 所以它占地小移动便捷
And of course, who wouldn't like to take a ride on one of these.	当然 谁不想 骑着它遛遛弯儿呢
And these are more practical applications.	这些是最实用的几个功能
But there's also a certain beauty within this technology.	但是这项技术本身 就带着美而来
Thank you.	（鼓掌） 谢谢
Thank you.	（鼓掌） 谢谢
There are two groups of women when it comes to screening mammography -- women in whom mammography works very well and has saved thousands of lives and women in whom it doesn't work well at all.	在乳腺X光造影诊断中， 有两类女性： X光造影诊断对其中一类十分有效， 已经拯救了数千人的生命； 但对另一类却无法做出有效诊断。
Do you know which group you're in?	你是否知道你是哪一类？
If you don't, you're not alone.	你并非唯一不了解的人。
Because the breast has become are very political organ.	因为乳房已经成为 一种非常政治化的器官。
The truth has become lost in all the rhetoric coming from the press, politicians, radiologists and medical imaging companies.	真相正日渐式微， 淹没于各大媒体、 政治家、 放射学家、 以及医学成像公司的虚夸雄辩。
I will do my best this morning to tell you what I think is the truth.	今天早上，我将尽自己最大的努力 告诉你们我所认为的真相。
But first, my disclosures.	但首先我必须坦白，
I am not a breast cancer survivor.	我不曾战胜过乳腺癌。
I'm not a radiologist.	我也不是放射学家。
I don't have any patents, and I've never received any money from a medical imaging company, and I am not seeking your vote.	我没有任何专利， 我也从未从任何一家医学造影公司拿过一分钱。 而且我并不期待你们的投票。
What I am is a doctor of internal medicine who became passionately interested in this topic about 10 years ago when a patient asked me a question.	我只是 一位内服药品医生， 大约十年前， 一个病人的问题 让我对这个领域产生了浓厚的兴趣。
She came to see me after discovering a breast lump.	她来见我 她刚被诊断出一个乳房肿块。
Her sister had been diagnosed with breast cancer in her 40s.	她的姐姐在四十岁时， 被诊断为乳腺癌。
She and I were both very pregnant at that time, and my heart just ached for her, imagining how afraid she must be.	当时她和我都已经是大腹便便的孕妇了， 我为她感到心痛， 我想她该有多担心害怕。
Fortunately, her lump proved to be benign.	幸运的是，她的肿块是良性的。
But she asked me a question: how confident was I that I would find a tumor early on her mammogram if she developed one?	但她问了我一个问题： 我有多大的把握 能在她的乳房X光片中 发现早期肿瘤？
So I studied her mammogram, and I reviewed the radiology literature, and I was shocked to discover that, in her case, our chances of finding a tumor early on the mammogram were less than the toss of a coin.	于是我仔细看了她的乳房X光片， 我查阅了放射学文献， 我震惊地发现， 在她的情况下， 在乳房X光片中发现早期肿瘤的可能性， 竟然小于50%.
You may recall a year ago when a firestorm erupted after the United States Preventive Services Task Force reviewed the world's mammography screening literature and issued a guideline recommending against screening mammograms in women in their 40s.	你大概可以想起来，一年前 那次事件大爆发， 美国预防服务工作组 审查了全球乳房X光造影诊断技术的文献， 发布了一个准则 表示不推荐四十岁的女性 使用乳房X光造影诊断。
Now everybody rushed to criticize the Task Force, even though most of them weren't in anyway familiar with the mammography studies.	然后所有人都指责工作组， 即使他们中根本没有人 真的了解乳房X光造影诊断。
It took the Senate just 17 days to ban the use of the guidelines in determining insurance coverage.	参议院又花了17天， 禁止在保险覆盖条例中 使用这个条例。
Radiologists were outraged by the guidelines.	放射学家对这个条例 十分愤慨。
The pre-eminent mammographer in the United States issued the following quote to the Washington Post.	美国最杰出的乳房X光造影技术专家 在华盛顿邮报上 发表声明。
The radiologists were, in turn, criticized for protecting their own financial self-interest.	放射学家反被指责 过分关注个人经济利益。
But in my view, the radiologists are heroes.	然而我认为， 这些放射学家才是真英雄。
There's a shortage of radiologists qualified to read mammograms, and that's because mammograms are one of the most complex of all radiology studies to interpret, and because radiologists are sued more often over missed breast cancer than any other cause.	一直以来，有资质看乳房X光片的 放射学家是不多的， 因为解读乳房X光片是 所有放射性研究中最为复杂的， 另外相比其他原因， 放射学家更容易因此 而被指控 误诊乳腺癌。
But that very fact is telling.	但事实胜于雄辩。
Where there is this much legal smoke, there is likely to be some fire.	哪里有硝烟， 哪里就有烈火。
The factor most responsible for that fire is breast density.	导致这场激辩烈火的重要因素 是乳腺密度。
Breast density refers to the relative amount of fat -- pictured here in yellow -- versus connective and epithelial tissues -- pictured in pink.	乳腺密度是指脂肪含量- （图中黄色的部分）-- 与结缔组织含量（图中粉色部分）-- 的比例。
And that proportion is primarily genetically determined.	这个比例 主要是由基因决定的。
Two-thirds of women in their 40s have dense breast tissue, which is why mammography doesn't work as well in them.	2/3的四十岁女性 属于高乳腺密度， 这就是为什么乳房X光造影技术无法对他们做出有效诊断的原因。
And although breast density generally declines with age, up to a third of women retain dense breast tissue for years after menopause.	尽管乳腺密度一般随年龄增长而下降， 仍有1/3的女性 在停经数年后 仍属于高乳腺密度的群体。
So how do you know if your breasts are dense?	那你该如何知道你是否属于高乳腺密度呢？
Well, you need to read the details of your mammography report.	你需要非常仔细地阅读 你的乳房X光片报告。
Radiologists classify breast density into four categories based on the appearance of the tissue on a mammogram.	放射学家 根据乳腺组织的成像 将乳腺密度分为四类。
If the breast is less than 25 percent dense, that's called fatty-replaced.	乳腺密度小于25%， 称为脂肪替代型；
The next category is scattered fibroglandular densities, followed by heterogeneously dense and extremely dense.	第二种 是分散乳腺纤维密度型； 然后是混合密度型， 和最高密度型。
And breasts that fall into these two categories are considered dense.	最后两类， 是高密度型的。
The problem with breast density is that it's truly the wolf in sheep's clothing.	高密度乳腺所带来的问题 就好像披着羊皮的狼。
Both tumors and dense breast tissue appear white on a mammogram, and the X-ray often can't distinguish between the two.	肿瘤和高密度乳腺组织 在乳房X光片上都呈现为白色， 通常X光无法辨别这两者。
So it's easy to see this tumor in the upper part of this fatty breast.	所以很容易 在此处上部的脂肪组织中看到肿瘤。
But imagine how difficult it would be to find that tumor in this dense breast.	但你无法想象 在高密度乳腺中找到肿瘤是多么困难。
That's why mammograms find over 80 percent of tumors in fatty breasts, but as few as 40 percent in extremely dense breasts.	这就是为什么，乳房X光造影成像技术 可以在低乳腺密度的乳房中找到80%以上的肿瘤， 而在极高乳腺密度的乳房中只能找到40%。
Now it's bad enough that breast density makes it hard to find a cancer, but it turns out that it's also a powerful predictor of your risk for breast cancer.	好吧，高乳腺密度已经导致 寻找肿瘤比其它情况更困难， 然而更糟的是 高乳腺密度也有力地预示 乳腺癌患病率的高风险。
It's a stronger risk factor than having a mother or a sister with breast cancer.	它的风险系数 比母亲或姐妹有乳腺癌病史更强。
At the time my patient posed this question to me, breast density was an obscure topic in the radiology literature, and very few women having mammograms, or the physicians ordering them, knew about this.	当年我的病人问我这个问题时， 乳腺密度在放射性学的学术界 还未引起重视， 很少有接受乳房X光造影诊断的女性， 或者使用乳房X光造影诊断的内科医生 了解这一点。
But what else could I offer her?	但我又能为她做些什么？
Mammograms have been around since the 1960's, and it's changed very little.	乳房X光造影诊断于1960年前后开始流行， 此后几乎没有什么改进。
There have been surprisingly few innovations, until digital mammography was approved in 2000.	几乎没有令人震惊的创新， 直到2000年， 数码乳房X光造影技术被批准进入市场。
Digital mammography is still an X-ray of the breast, but the images can be stored and manipulated digitally, just like we can with a digital camera.	数码乳房X光造影仍然使用X光， 但是图像 可以储存并进行数码操纵， 就像我们用数码相机一样。
The U.S. has invested four billion dollars converting to digital mammography equipment, and what have we gained from that investment?	美国已经投入 40亿美元 更新换代至数码乳房X光造影设备。 我们又从这笔投资中得到了什么呢？
In a study funded by over 25 million taxpayer dollars, digital mammography was found to be no better over all than traditional mammography, and in fact, it was worse in older women.	一项耗费纳税人两千五百万美金的调查显示， 数码乳房X光仪 并不比传统设备 有更好的综合表现。 事实上，对老年女性来说，表现更糟。
But it was better in one group, and that was women under 50 who were pre-menopausal and had dense breasts, and in those women, digital mammography found twice as many cancers, but it still only found 60 percent.	不过， 对50岁以下女性来说，表现更好， 这一群体还未绝经，且乳腺组织密度较高。 在这个群体中， 数码乳房X光诊断可以找到两倍多的肿瘤， 尽管仍只有60%。
So digital mammography has been a giant leap forward for manufacturers of digital mammography equipment, but it's been a very small step forward for womankind.	所以数码乳房X光造影技术 对数码乳房X光造影设备的 制造商来说， 是一次巨大的飞跃， 但对女性来说， 却只是一小步而已。
What about ultrasound?	那么超声波呢？
Ultrasound generates more biopsies that are unnecessary relative to other technologies, so it's not widely used.	与其他技术相比，超声波检查必须配合 更多不必要的活组织检查， 所以并未得到广泛使用。
And MRI is exquisitely sensitive for finding tumors, but it's also very expensive.	核磁共振在肿瘤诊断方面相当灵敏， 但它也非常昂贵。
If we think about disruptive technology, we see an almost ubiquitous pattern of the technology getting smaller and less expensive.	联想到其他领域的各种科技， 可以发现一种普遍存在的模式， 就是它们总是像更小、更经济的方向发展。
Think about iPods compared to stereos.	比较一下iPod和立体声音响吧。
But it's the exact opposite in health care.	但在医疗保健领域，情况则完全相反。
The machines get ever bigger and ever more expensive.	设备越来越大， 越来越昂贵。
Screening the average young woman with an MRI is kind of like driving to the grocery store in a Hummer.	女性做一次核磁共振扫描， 就像驾着悍马轰隆隆进杂货店一样。
It's just way too much equipment.	杀鸡用牛刀。
One MRI scan costs 10 times what a digital mammogram costs.	一次核磁共振扫描， 价格约为数码X光造影的10倍。
And sooner or later, we're going to have to accept the fact that health care innovation can't always come at a much higher price.	迟早我们会接受这个现实： 医疗保健领域的创新 不可能总是如此价格高昂。
Malcolm Gladwell wrote an article in the New Yorker on innovation, and he made the case that scientific discoveries are rarely the product of one individual's genius.	马尔科姆·葛拉威尔Malcolm Gladwell在纽约人上写过一篇 有关创新的文章， 他认为科学发现 绝非个人天才的产品，
Rather, big ideas can be orchestrated, if you can simply gather people with different perspectives in a room and get them to talk about things that they don't ordinarily talk about.	反之，伟大的思想可以和谐交融， 如果你能把 持有各种观点的人集中在一个房间内， 让他们就一般不会谈及的事务 充分交流沟通。
It's like the essence of TED.	这其实就类似于TED的精髓了。
He quotes one innovator who says, "The only time a physician and a physicist get together is when the physicist gets sick."	他引用一位创新者的话： "只有一种情况能让内科医生和物理学家见面， 就是物理学家病了。"
This makes no sense, because physicians have all kinds of problems that they don't realize have solutions.	这说法很不对， 因为物理学家一直以来都没有意识到 他们的很多问题都是有解决办法的。
And physicists have all kinds of solutions for things that they don't realize are problems.	内科医生也没有意识到 他们正可以提供许多问题的解法。
Now, take a look at this cartoon that accompanied Gladwell's article, and tell me if you see something disturbing about this depiction of innovative thinkers.	看这副漫画 葛拉威尔Gladwell在文章中也引用过它， 告诉我这幅画对创新者的描绘， 是否让你感到有些困惑。
So if you will allow me a little creative license, I will tell you the story of the serendipitous collision of my patient's problem with a physicist's solution.	如果你们不介意我发挥一点创造力， 我要告诉你们一个 极其偶然的巧合， 有关我病人的问题 和一个医生的解决办法。
Shortly after her visit, I was introduced to a nuclear physicist at Mayo named Michael O'Conner, who was a specialist in cardiac imaging, something I had nothing to do with.	在她拜访我之后不久， 我认识了一位核物理学家， 他来自Mayo 名叫迈克尔·奥康纳Michael O'Conner， 他是心血管造影的专家， 而我对心血管造影那是一窍不通。
And he happened to tell me about a conference he'd just returned from in Israel, where they were talking about a new type of gamma detector.	一个偶然，他告诉我 他刚从以色列开会回来， 他们正讨论某种新型伽马探测器，
Now gamma imaging has been around for a long time to image the heart, and it had even been tried to image the breast.	当时伽马线造影已经出现有段时间了， 一直被用于心脏造影， 也曾有人尝试将其用于乳房造影。
But the problem was that the gamma detectors were these huge, bulky tubes, and they were filled with these scintillating crystals, and you just couldn't get them close enough around the breast to find small tumors.	但问题是 伽马线的探测器 是这种块头巨大的显像管， 里面塞满这样亮晶晶的晶状物， 你根本没有办法把它们放到距离乳房足够近的地方 去找到小肿瘤。
But the potential advantage was that gamma rays, unlike X-rays, are not influenced by breast density.	但隐性的优势在于 伽马射线与X射线不同， 并不会被乳腺密度影响。
But this technology could not find tumors when they're small, and finding a small tumor is critical for survival.	但这项技术 没有办法找到小型的肿瘤。 找到小型肿瘤对存活率非常关键。
If you can find a tumor when it's less than a centimeter, survival exceeds 90 percent, but drops off rapidly as tumor size increases.	如果你能找到一个 直径小于1厘米的肿瘤， 存活率超过90%， 之后存活率随着 肿瘤增大而迅速下降。
But Michael told me about a new type of gamma detector that he'd seen, and this is it.	迈克尔Michael告诉我， 他见到的一种新型伽马探测器， 就是这个东西。
It's made not of a bulky tube, but of a thin layer of a semiconductor material that serves as the gamma detector.	它并非 由巨大的晶体管造成， 取而代之的是一层轻薄的半导体材料， 来作为伽马线探测器。
And I started talking to him about this problem with breast density, and we realized that we might be able to get this detector close enough around the breast to actually find small tumors.	于是我开始与他讨论 乳腺密度的问题， 我们意识到也许我们可以 把这个探测器放到距离乳房足够近的地方 去找到小肿瘤。
So after putting together a grid of these cubes with tape -- -- Michael hacked off the X-ray plate of a mammography machine that was about to be thrown out, and we attached the new detector, and we decided to call this machine Molecular Breast Imaging, or MBI.	接着我们 用胶带纸把这些小方块粘在一起-- --迈克尔Michael去掉了一台 即将废弃的乳房X光仪上的 X射线板。 我们连上新的探测器， 我们决定称这台机器为 分子乳房造影，简称MBI。
This is an image from our first patient.	这是我们第一位病人的造影片。
And you can see, using the old gamma technology, that it just looked like noise.	可以看到，使用古老的伽马线探测技术， 看起来一片模糊。
But using our new detector, we could begin to see the outline of a tumor.	但如果使用新的探测器， 我们可以看到肿瘤的轮廓。
So here we were, a nuclear physicist, an internist, soon joined by Carrie Hruska, a biomedical engineer, and two radiologists, and we were trying to take on the entrenched world of mammography with a machine that was held together by duct tape.	于是我们，一个核物理学家， 一个内科医师， 之后卡丽·鲁斯卡Carrie Hruska又加入我们，一位生物医学工程师， 还有两位放射学家， 我们尝试使用一台用胶布粘起来的仪器 去拓展 造影成像技术的世界。
To say that we faced high doses of skepticism in those early years is just a huge understatement, but we were so convinced that we might be able to make this work that we chipped away with incremental modifications to this system.	要说我们在早年 面对了 大量的嘲讽质疑 都只能说是轻描淡写了。 但我们都坚信我们一定会成功 我们一点一点 改进整个系统。
This is our current detector.	这是我们目前的探测器。
And you can see that it looks a lot different.	你会发现它看起来已经非常不同。
The duct tape is gone, and we added a second detector on top of the breast, which has further improved our tumor detection.	没有胶布了， 我们在乳房上方加入第二块探测器， 进一步改进了我们探测肿瘤的能力。
So how does this work?	它实际作用如何？
The patient receives an injection of a radio tracer that's taken up by rapidly proliferating tumor cells, but not by normal cells, and this is the key difference from mammography.	这位病人注射了放射性跟踪剂， 繁殖旺盛的肿瘤细胞会迅速吸收这种放射性跟踪剂， 正常细胞则不会。 这里显示造影片的巨大区别。
Mammography relies on differences in the appearance of the tumor from the background tissue, and we've seen that those differences can be obscured in a dense breast.	造影技术依靠的就是 肿瘤组织与周边组织的突显区别， 我们看到这些区别 在高乳腺密度的乳房中很模糊。
But MBI exploits the different molecular behavior of tumors, and therefore, it's impervious to breast density.	但是MBI完整显现了 肿瘤与其他细胞的区别， 因此不受乳腺密度的影响。
After the injection, the patient's breast is placed between the detectors.	在注射后， 这位病人的乳房被置于两个探测器中间。
And if you've ever had a mammogram -- if you're old enough to have had a mammogram -- you know what comes next: pain.	如果你曾做过乳房X光造影诊断-- 如果你年龄足够大的话-- 你知道随之而来的是： 疼痛。
You may be surprised to know that mammography is the only radiologic study that's regulated by federal law, and the law requires that the equivalent of a 40-pound car battery come down on your breast during this study.	你也许会很惊讶， 乳房X光造影 是唯一被联邦法律允许的放射性研究技术， 法律要求 其强度约等于一块40磅的汽车电池 砸向你的乳房。
But with MBI, we use just light, pain-free compression.	但是用MBI， 只有轻微的压痛感。
And the detector then transmits the image to the computer.	探测器 随后把图像传回到计算机。
So here's an example.	这是一个例子。
You can see, on the right, a mammogram showing a faint tumor, the edges of which are blurred by the dense tissue.	你可以看到右侧，X光片 显示一个成像模糊的肿瘤， 肿瘤边缘由于高密度乳腺组织而变得模糊。
But the MBI image shows that tumor much more clearly, as well as a second tumor, which profoundly influence that patient's surgical options.	但MBI成像中的肿瘤，清楚多了， 还有第二个肿瘤， 这对病人的手术方案有巨大的影响。
In this example, although the mammogram found one tumor, we were able to demonstrate three discrete tumors -- one is small as three millimeters.	在这个例子中，X光片找到了一个肿瘤， 但我们找到了3个很难探测出的肿瘤-- 其中一个直径只有3毫米。
Our big break came in 2004.	我们的突破在2004年。
After we had demonstrated that we could find small tumors, we used these images to submit a grant to the Susan G. Komen Foundation.	在我们论证能找到小肿瘤之后， 我们用这些肿瘤成像 申请Susan G.Komen苏珊·G·科曼乳腺癌基金会的赞助。
And we were elated when they took a chance on a team of completely unknown investigators and funded us to study 1,000 women with dense breasts, comparing a screening mammogram to an MBI.	当他们最终决定在一群未曾谋面的探索者身上冒这个险时， 我们是那么的欢欣鼓舞， 他们赞助我们 研究1000名高乳腺密度的女性， 并比较她们的X光片和MBI成像。
Of the tumors that we found, mammography found only 25 percent of those tumors.	在所有我们找到的肿瘤中， X光片找到了其中的 25%
MBI found 83 percent.	MBI找到了83%。
Here's an example from that screening study.	这是此次扫描研究的例表。
The digital mammogram was read as normal and shows lots of dense tissue, but the MBI shows an area of intense uptake, which correlated with a two-centimeter tumor.	数码X光片如往常一样 显示大量高密度乳腺组织， 但是MBI显示了一片高密度区域， 该区域与一个直径2厘米的肿瘤有关。
In this case, a one-centimeter tumor.	在这个例子中，一个直径1厘米的肿瘤。
And in this case, a 45-year-old medical secretary at Mayo, who had lost her mother to breast cancer when she was very young, wanted to enroll in our study.	这个例子， 一位来自梅奥的45岁医学秘书， 她很小时候母亲就患乳腺癌去世了， 因此她希望参与我们的研究。
And her mammogram showed an area of very dense tissue, but her MBI showed an area of worrisome uptake, which we can also see on a color image.	她的X光片显示一片高密度乳腺组织， 而她的MBI显示 该区域值得忧虑， 在彩片中也可以看到。
And this corresponded to a tumor the size of a golf ball.	与此对应的 是一个高尔夫球大小的肿瘤。
But fortunately it was removed before it had spread to her lymph nodes.	幸运的是我们摘除了它， 当时它还未扩散到淋巴结。
So now that we knew that this technology could find three times more tumors in a dense breast, we had to solve one very important problem.	所以现在我们得知这项技术 可以在高乳腺密度的乳房中找到3倍多的肿瘤， 还有一个很重要的问题需要解决。
We had to figure out how to lower the radiation dose, and we have spent the last three years making modifications to every aspect of the imaging system to allow this.	我们必须尝试降低放射量。 最近这三年， 我们对这个造影系统的每一个细节都做了改进， 致力于降低它的放射量。
And I'm very happy to report that we're now using a dose of radiation that is equivalent to the effective dose from one digital mammogram.	我现在非常高兴地告诉大家，我们现在使用的放射量 已经与数码X光造影的有效放射量 完全相等。
And at this low dose, we're continuing this screening study, and this image from three weeks ago in a 67-year-old woman shows a normal digital mammogram, but an MBI image showing an uptake that proved to be a large cancer.	使用低放射量，我们继续这项扫描研究， 这张图片，来自于3周前， 一位67岁的妇女， 其数码X光片显示一切正常， 但是MBI图像显示 这是一大片癌细胞，之后也被验证确实如此。
So this is not just young women that it's benefiting.	所以这不仅仅是有益于低年龄层女性了。
It's also older women with dense tissue.	高年龄层的、乳腺密度较高的女性同样受益。
And we're now routinely using one-fifth the radiation dose that's used in any other type of gamma technology.	现在我们一般只使用，1/5于 其他类型伽马射线技术的放射量。
MBI generates four images per breast.	MBI对每个乳房呈现4张图像。
MRI generates over a thousand.	而核磁共振成像则超过1000张。
It takes a radiologist years of specialty training to become expert in differentiating the normal anatomic detail from the worrisome finding.	一个放射学家 需要很多年专业训练 才能成为辨别 普通解剖学细节组织 和真正病灶的专家。
But I suspect even the non-radiologists in the room can find the tumor on the MBI image.	但我猜想，这个房间里，即使你不是一位放射学专家， 你也可以在MBI成像中找到肿瘤。
But this is why MBI is so potentially disruptive -- it's as accurate as MRI, it's far less complex to interpret, and it's a fraction of the cost.	然而这正是MBI 受到百般阻挠的原因。 它和核磁共振一样精确， 但又比核磁共振好辨认得多， 而且花费只是核磁共振的一个零头。
But you can understand why there may be forces in the breast-imaging world who prefer the status quo.	也许你能明白 在乳房成像领域中， 有些人却安于现状，施加阻力的原因。
After achieving what we felt were remarkable results, our manuscript was rejected by four journals.	在获得这个我们自认为非凡的成就之后， 我们的稿件 被4家杂志拒收。
After the fourth rejection, we requested reconsideration of the manuscript, because we strongly suspected that one of the reviewers who had rejected it had a financial conflict of interest in a competing technology.	在第四次拒收后， 我们要求对稿件进行重审， 因为我们严重怀疑 审核小组中一位拒绝此稿件的成员 在与之竞争的技术领域 有经济利益纠葛。
Our manuscript was then accepted and will be published later this month in the journal Radiology.	之后我们的稿件被接收了 并即将在本月末刊登在 《放射学研究》期刊中。
We still need to complete the screening study using the low dose, and then our findings will need to be replicated at other institutions, and this could take five or more years.	我们继续用低放射量完成整个扫描研究， 然后我们的成果将需要 其它研究机构重新检验。 这可能会耗费五年或更长时间。
If this technology is widely adopted, I will not benefit financially in any way, and that is very important to me, because it allows me to continue to tell you the truth.	如果这项技术被广泛运用， 我不会图取任何经济利益。 这对我很重要， 因为这一点让我坚持告诉你们真相。
But I recognize -- I recognize that the adoption of this technology will depend as much on economic and political forces as it will on the soundness of the science.	但我意识到-- 我意识到要推广这项技术， 不仅需要强大的科学技术支持， 也需要经济力量 和政治力量的支持。
The MBI unit has now been FDA approved, but it's not yet widely available.	MBI已经被FDA美国食品及药物管理局批准了， 但仍未被广泛运用。
So until something is available for women with dense breasts, there are things that you should know to protect yourself.	因此在MBI面世之前， 对于高乳腺密度的女性， 有些东西你们需要了解 来保护你们自己。
First, know your density.	第一，了解你的乳腺密度。
Ninety percent of women don't, and 95 percent of women don't know that it increases your breast cancer risk.	90%的女性不了解自己的乳腺密度， 95%的女性不了解 乳腺密度的增加也会增加罹患乳腺癌的风险。
The State of Connecticut became the first and only state to mandate that women receive notification of their breast density after a mammogram.	康涅狄格州成为第一个，也是唯一一个 要求女性在乳房X光片诊断后 了解 自己乳腺密度的州。
I was at a conference of 60,000 people in breast-imaging last week in Chicago, and I was stunned that there was a heated debate as to whether we should be telling women what their breast density is.	上周在芝加哥，我参加了一个 6万人与会的乳房造影技术大会。 我惊讶于看到一场激烈的辩论， 关于是否应该告诉女性 她们的乳腺密度。
Of course we should.	我们当然应该告诉她们。
And if you don't know, please ask your doctor or read the details of your mammography report.	如果你不知道，请询问你的医生 或者仔细研究你的乳房X光诊断报告。
Second, if you're pre-menopausal, try to schedule your mammogram in the first two weeks of your menstrual cycle, when breast density is relatively lower.	第二，如果你还未绝经， 请尝试把你的乳房X光诊断 计划安排在月经周期的前两周， 这段时间你的乳腺密度相对较低。
Third, if you notice a persistent change in your breast, insist on additional imaging.	第三，如果你注意到你的乳房有一些慢性病变， 请坚持要求更多的成像检查。
And fourth and most important, the mammography debate will rage on, but I do believe that all women 40 and older should have an annual mammogram.	第四，也是最重要的一点， 乳房X光诊断的辩论将会持续升温， 但我坚信40岁以上的女性应该每年做一次 乳房X光检查。
Mammography isn't perfect, but it's the only test that's been proven to reduce mortality from breast cancer.	乳房X光检查并不完美， 但它是目前为止唯一被验证 可以降低乳腺癌死亡率的诊断方式。
But this mortality banner is the very sword which mammography's most ardent advocates use to deter innovation.	但这个死亡率招牌 正是一把双刃剑， 乳房X光诊断的热诚簇拥者们用这把剑 来打击创新。
Some women who develop breast cancer die from it many years later, and most women, thankfully, survive.	而另一些身患乳腺癌的女性 多年后却因它而死。 谢天谢地的是，大部分女性，活了下来。
So it takes 10 or more years for any screening method to demonstrate a reduction in mortality from breast cancer.	所以任何新的造影成像技术要花费10年 甚至更多年 来证明其诊断降低了 乳腺癌死亡率。
Mammography's the only one that's been around long enough to have a chance of making that claim.	长久以来，乳房X光造影 是唯一有机会声明它可以降低乳腺癌死亡率的。
It is time for us to accept both the extraordinary successes of mammography and the limitations.	但现在是时候让我们接受 乳房X光造影不仅有非凡的成功之处， 也存在许多限制。
We need to individualize screening based on density.	我们需要对不同乳腺密度的个体 使用个性化的扫描成像技术。
For women without dense breasts, mammography is the best choice.	对于低乳腺密度的女性来说， 乳房X光造影是最佳选择。
But for women with dense breasts; we shouldn't abandon screening altogether, we need to offer them something better.	但对于高乳腺密度的女性来说， 我们不该一刀子斩断所有的造影诊断技术， 我们要为她们提供更好的诊断技术。
The babies that we were carrying when my patient first asked me this question are now both in middle school, and the answer has been so slow to come.	当年我的病人问我问题时 我们怀着的孩子 现如今已双双进入中学， 答案却还迟迟未来。
She's given me her blessing to share this story with you.	她给我祝福， 让我把这个故事与你们分享。
After undergoing biopsies that further increased her risk for cancer and losing her sister to cancer, she made the difficult decision to have a prophylactic mastectomy.	在接受活组织检查后， 而活组织检查会增加患癌症风险， 以及经历被癌症夺去姐姐的痛苦之后， 她终于做出了艰难的决定， 为避免乳腺癌而做了乳房切除术。
We can and must do better, not just in time for her granddaughters and my daughters, but in time for you.	我们有能力，并且必须做的更好， 这不仅是为了她的孙女， 还有我的女儿， 还有在座的各位。
Thank you.	谢谢。
We grew up interacting with the physical objects around us.	我们生长在 和周围物体互动的环境里
There are an enormous number of them that we use every day.	有很多很多物品， 是我们每天都要用到的
Unlike most of our computing devices, these objects are much more fun to use.	和大部分计算机软件相比， 这些实体有趣多了。
When you talk about objects, one other thing automatically comes attached to that thing, and that is gestures: how we manipulate these objects, how we use these objects in everyday life.	当我们提到物品, 会立即出现和这东西有关的另一件事 -- 姿势: 也就是：我们怎么使用这些物品, 我们在每日生活中如何使用这些物品
We use gestures not only to interact with these objects, but we also use them to interact with each other.	我们不只运用不同姿势来使用物体 也用来和别人沟通。
A gesture of "Namaste!", maybe, to respect someone, or maybe -- in India I don't need to teach a kid that this means "four runs" in cricket.	合十的姿势，可能是表示尊敬某人 或者是 -- 在印度，不必教，小孩都知道这是 -- 板球的"4"的意思
It comes as a part of our everyday learning.	这是我们的生活常识
So, I am very interested, from the beginning, that how -- how our knowledge about everyday objects and gestures, and how we use these objects, can be leveraged to our interactions with the digital world.	所以，我一开始，就很有兴趣 想了解， -- 我们对于 日常用品和姿势的认知, 以及，如何把这些物品 运用在我们和数字世界的沟通上
Rather than using a keyboard and mouse, why can I not use my computer in the same way that I interact in the physical world?	为什么没有键盘和鼠标, 我就没办法使用计算机? 为什么和计算机沟通，不能和实体世界沟通一样?
So, I started this exploration around eight years back, and it literally started with a mouse on my desk.	我的探索从八年前开始 从我桌上的鼠标开始
Rather than using it for my computer, I actually opened it.	我不是在计算机屏幕上使用它 而是拆开它，
Most of you might be aware that, in those days, the mouse used to come with a ball inside, and there were two rollers that actually guide the computer where the ball is moving, and, accordingly, where the mouse is moving.	你们都知道，在那个年代， 鼠标里面有个球， 还有两个滚轮， 所以，当鼠标移动时， 滚轮会告诉计算机，球滚动的方向。
So, I was interested in these two rollers, and I actually wanted more, so I borrowed another mouse from a friend -- never returned to him -- and I now had four rollers.	我对滚轮有兴趣， 但还需要多几个，所以就跟朋友借他的鼠标 一直没还他 -- 这样就有了四个滚轮。
Interestingly, what I did with these rollers is, basically, I took them off of these mouses and then put them in one line.	我怎么用这些滚轮呢-- 基本上，我把它们从鼠标里拿出来 放在一条在线
It had some strings and pulleys and some springs.	有线、滑带和弹簧
What I got is basically a gesture interface device that actually acts as a motion-sensing device made for two dollars.	我做出了一个侦测姿势的接口装置。 像个动作侦测装置， 成本只要两块美元。
So, here, whatever movement I do in my physical world is actually replicated inside the digital world just using this small device that I made, around eight years back, in 2000.	所以，现在，不论我在实体世界做什么， 在数字的世界里就会反映出来 只要用这个我8年前做的小东西就可以, 那是2000年。
Because I was interested in integrating these two worlds, I thought of sticky notes.	我对于整合实体和数字世界有兴趣, 我想到便利贴。
I thought, "Why can I not connect the normal interface of a physical sticky note to the digital world?"	我想, "何不把 实体便利贴的接口，和 数字便利贴整合在一起?"
A message written on a sticky note to my mom on paper can come to an SMS, or maybe a meeting reminder automatically syncs with my digital calendar -- a to-do list that automatically syncs with you.	在便利贴上写给我妈妈的留言 纸条 可以用简讯传递。 或是写在纸上的会议通知 自动和我的数字行事历同步 -- 待办事项会自动在计算机上同步。
But you can also search in the digital world, or maybe you can write a query, saying, "What is Dr. Smith's address?"	但你也同时可以在数字环境里搜寻, 或者是,你可以写下问题, 如, "史教授的地址?"
and this small system actually prints it out -- so it actually acts like a paper input-output system, just made out of paper.	然后这个小系统就把地址打印出来 -- 这就像是个纸做的输出入系统, 用纸就可以做到.
In another exploration, I thought of making a pen that can draw in three dimensions.	另一项探索是, 我想到用一枝可以画3D效果的笔
So, I implemented this pen that can help designers and architects not only think in three dimensions, but they can actually draw so that it's more intuitive to use that way.	所以就设计出这支笔 帮助设计师和建筑师 不只以三度空间思考, 也可以画3D图形 这样用起来就更直觉多了。
Then I thought, "Why not make a Google Map, but in the physical world?"	我又想, "何不做一个实体世界的 Google地图?"
Rather than typing a keyword to find something, I put my objects on top of it.	不必输入关键词来找东西, 而是放这个东西在地图上。
If I put a boarding pass, it will show me where the flight gate is.	如果我把登机证放在地图上,它会显示登机口的位置
A coffee cup will show where you can find more coffee, or where you can trash the cup.	放咖啡杯，它会显示咖啡厅的位置, 或垃圾筒的位置.
So, these were some of the earlier explorations I did because the goal was to connect these two worlds seamlessly.	这些是早期我做的实验， 我的目的是紧密衔接这两个世界.
Among all these experiments, there was one thing in common: I was trying to bring a part of the physical world to the digital world.	在这些实验之中, 有一个共通点: 我都会把实体的东西带进数字环境里.
I was taking some part of the objects, or any of the intuitiveness of real life, and bringing them to the digital world, because the goal was to make our computing interfaces more intuitive.	我把物品, 或生活中，直觉式的东西, 带进数字世界里, 目的是让计算机接口更人性化
But then I realized that we humans are not actually interested in computing.	但是后来我了解到 人们对计算机没有兴趣
What we are interested in is information.	人们有兴趣的是信息。
We want to know about things.	我们想知道更多事情.
We want to know about dynamic things going around.	我们想知道周围的各种动态
So I thought, around last year -- in the beginning of the last year -- I started thinking, "Why can I not take this approach in the reverse way?"	所以，大约在去年，去年年初的时候-- 我开始想, "我何不颠倒我的研究方向呢?"
Maybe, "How about I take my digital world and paint the physical world with that digital information?"	或许, "把数字世界的数字信息， 描画在实体世界里??"
Because pixels are actually, right now, confined in these rectangular devices that fit in our pockets.	因为这些影像，都被包在这些方方的装置里 然后放进口袋里.
Why can I not remove this confine and take that to my everyday objects, everyday life so that I don't need to learn the new language for interacting with those pixels?	我何不把这个形体打破 把信息放进日常生活中? 这样我也不必学新的、 和这些象素沟通的语言?
So, in order to realize this dream, I actually thought of putting a big-size projector on my head.	为了实现这个梦想, 我真的想过把一个投影机放在我的头上
I think that's why this is called a head-mounted projector, isn't it?	这就是所谓「投影机」的意思，对吧?!
I took it very literally, and took my bike helmet, put a little cut over there so that the projector actually fits nicely.	我照着字面意思做了 我把自行车的头盔 割掉一点,让投影机可以放得进去.
So now, what I can do -- I can augment the world around me with this digital information.	这样，我可以 -- 在真实世界中用数字讯息环绕我
But later, I realized that I actually wanted to interact with those digital pixels, also.	但是,后来 我想到 我也要和这些计算机像素沟通.
So I put a small camera over there, that acts as a digital eye.	所以我加了一个小摄影机, 当作数位眼睛.
Later, we moved to a much better, consumer-oriented pendant version of that, that many of you now know as the SixthSense device.	之后, 我们进一步,做成-- 使用者导向的颈挂式, 就是很多人知道的「第六感计算装置」.
But the most interesting thing about this particular technology is that you can carry your digital world with you wherever you go.	这技术最有趣的地方是 你可以把数字世界带着走 到任何地方都可以.
You can start using any surface, any wall around you, as an interface.	你可以用任何表面或墙壁， 当成界面.
The camera is actually tracking all your gestures.	这录像机随时都在侦测你的动作.
Whatever you're doing with your hands, it's understanding that gesture.	不论双手在做什么, 它都知道.
And, actually, if you see, there are some color markers that in the beginning version we are using with it.	还有，你看那些色笔 那是我们早期用的.
You can start painting on any wall.	可以在任何墙壁上画画.
You stop by a wall, and start painting on that wall.	可以停在墙壁前面，开始在墙上作画.
But we are not only tracking one finger, here.	而且我们不只侦测一根手指.
We are giving you the freedom of using all of both of your hands, so you can actually use both of your hands to zoom into or zoom out of a map just by pinching all present.	我们让你可以用两只手全部, 所以可以用两只手去放大缩小-- 地图，用捏的.
The camera is actually doing -- just, getting all the images -- is doing the edge recognition and also the color recognition and so many other small algorithms are going on inside.	录像机 -- 收集所有影像 -- 执行动作辨识和颜色辨识 有很多小程序在里面跑
So, technically, it's a little bit complex, but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use, in some sense.	技术上有点复杂, 但是让人可以用的很自然
But I'm more excited that you can actually take it outside.	我更兴奋的是，可以带到户外去用
Rather than getting your camera out of your pocket, you can just do the gesture of taking a photo and it takes a photo for you.	不必掏出口袋里的照相机, 只要一个照相的姿势 它就替你照相了.
Thank you.	谢谢.
And later I can find a wall, anywhere, and start browsing those photos or maybe, "OK, I want to modify this photo a little bit and send it as an email to a friend."	拍完之后，我随便找一面墙, 就开始浏览这些照片 或, "我想修改一下这些照片 然后用电子邮件寄给朋友."
So, we are looking for an era where computing will actually merge with the physical world.	我们面对的世代是 -- 与实体世界融合在一起的运算
And, of course, if you don't have any surface, you can start using your palm for simple operations.	如果你没有平面可用， 手掌也可以处理简单的功能.
Here, I'm dialing a phone number just using my hand.	我在这里只用我的手，拨电话号码.
The camera is actually not only understanding your hand movements, but, interestingly, is also able to understand what objects you are holding in your hand.	摄影机不只了解你手部的动作, 而且, 它还知道在你手里拿着的是什么东西.
What we're doing here is actually -- for example, in this case, the book cover is matched with so many thousands, or maybe millions of books online, and checking out which book it is.	我们现在正在做的是 -- 举个例, 在这里, 这本书的封面 正在和在线的数以百万计的书封面比对, 找寻这是哪一本书.
Once it has that information, it finds out more reviews about that, or maybe New York Times has a sound overview on that, so you can actually hear, on a physical book, a review as sound.	一旦找到数据, 它会找到书评, 或者，可能纽约时报有个有声的简介, 你就可以, 在实体书上，听到 有声的书评.
This was Obama's visit last week to MIT.	这是欧巴玛总统上周来MIT的演讲.
So, I was seeing the live [video] of his talk, outside, on just a newspaper.	我从报纸上,看到他演讲的实况录像.
Your newspaper will show you live weather information rather than having it updated -- like, you have to check your computer in order to do that, right?	你的报纸会给你看动态天气报导 不必去更新数据 – 这原本，要上计算机 才找得到, 是吗?
When I'm going back, I can just use my boarding pass to check how much my flight has been delayed, because at that particular time, I'm not feeling like opening my iPhone, and checking out a particular icon.	我回印度时, 我只要拿出我的登机证 就可以知道我的班机延误多久, 因为在这种时候, 我不想打开iPhone, 点选某个功能图案.
And I think this technology will not only change the way -- yes.	我相信这个技术不只改变-- 是的.
It will change the way we interact with people, also, not only the physical world.	也会改变我们和别人的交流 不只在实体世界里.
The fun part is, I'm going to the Boston metro, and playing a pong game inside the train on the ground, right?	好玩的是，我在波士顿的捷运上 玩踢毽子游戏 在地上玩, 不错吧?
And I think the imagination is the only limit of what you can think of when this kind of technology merges with real life.	我相信，当这种技术和实体生活混在一起时 想象力是唯一能限制-- 我们的东西。
But many of you argue, actually, that all of our work is not only about physical objects.	但很多人会说-- 我的工作和实体物品没什么关系.
We actually do lots of accounting and paper editing and all those kinds of things; what about that?	我们做的大多是会计、编辑这类的事 对于这些,你怎么处理?
And many of you are excited about the next generation tablet computers to come out in the market.	很多人很期待新一代的平板计算机 上市
So, rather than waiting for that, I actually made my own, just using a piece of paper.	与其等待 ,我干脆自己做一个﹐只用了一张纸
So, what I did here is remove the camera -- All the webcam cameras have a microphone inside the camera.	我把录像机上的-- 所有网络度影机上都有个麦克风 .
I removed the microphone from that, and then just pinched that -- like I just made a clip out of the microphone -- and clipped that to a piece of paper, any paper that you found around.	我把麦克风拿下来 夹在-- 就像是做了个夹式麦克风 -- 夹在纸上, 随便的一张纸.
So now the sound of the touch is getting me when exactly I'm touching the paper.	每当我碰到纸的时候， 这在纸上接触的声音就会通知计算机.
But the camera is actually tracking where my fingers are moving.	录像机还在追踪我的手指的移动
You can of course watch movies.	你当然也可以看电影
and I am a Wilderness Explorer in Tribe 54.") And you can of course play games.	也可以玩游戏.
Here, the camera is actually understanding how you're holding the paper and playing a car-racing game.	摄影机知道你拿纸的方向 就可以玩赛车游戏
Many of you already must have thought, OK, you can browse.	很多人早又想到了，可以浏览
Yeah. Of course you can browse to any websites or you can do all sorts of computing on a piece of paper wherever you need it.	对，当然可以浏览任何网站 甚至在纸上做各种运算 在任何你需要的地方
So, more interestingly, I'm interested in how we can take that in a more dynamic way.	更有趣的是 我想把这个功能变得更强大一点
When I come back to my desk I can just pinch that information back to my desktop so I can use my full-size computer.	当我回到桌上，我可以捏住那个信息，-- 然后放到我的计算机屏幕上 这样我就可以用我的桌上计算机
And why only computers? We can just play with papers.	为什么要计算机? 用纸也很好玩.
Paper world is interesting to play with.	纸的世界很好玩.
Here, I'm taking a part of a document and putting over here a second part from a second place -- and I'm actually modifying the information that I have over there.	我把文章的一部分 放在这里, 当成第二部份 -- 然后调整-- 这里的信息.
Yeah. And I say, "OK, this looks nice, let me print it out, that thing."	好，然后我说, "OK, 这样很好, 我要打印出来."
So I now have a print-out of that thing, and now -- the workflow is more intuitive the way we used to do it maybe 20 years back, rather than now switching between these two worlds.	就有了一份打印文件, 这样 -- 工作流程比我们以前用的方式更人性了 像20年前的工作方式， 而不是像现在，要在两个世界里切换
So, as a last thought, I think that integrating information to everyday objects will not only help us to get rid of the digital divide, the gap between these two worlds, but will also help us, in some way, to stay human, to be more connected to our physical world.	最后， 我相信把信息和所有对象整合， 不仅可以消灭数字落差、 把两个世界间的鸿沟填满, 还可以帮助我们, 保有人性, 让我们和实体世界更连结.
And it will actually help us not end up being machines sitting in front of other machines.	最终会帮助我们，不要变成-- 坐在机器前面的另一部机器。
That's all. Thank you.	就这样. 谢谢.
Thank you.	谢谢.
So, Pranav, first of all, you're a genius.	嗯﹐Pranav, 首先，你是个天才.
This is incredible, really.	这真的太棒了,真的
What are you doing with this? Is there a company being planned?	你预备怎么做? 你想开个公司吗﹖
Or is this research forever, or what?	还是一直继续研究下去?还是有其它的打算?
Pranav Mistry: So, there are lots of companies -- actually sponsor companies of Media Lab -- interested in taking this ahead in one or another way.	Pranav Mistry: 很多公司 -- 就是 Medi L b的赞助者 -- 有兴趣以其它方法继续研究
Companies like mobile phone operators want to take this in a different way than the NGOs in India, [who] are thinking, "Why can we only have 'Sixth Sense'?	像行动通讯公司 和印度非营利机构的应用方法便不同 这些机构想 "为什么只有'第六感'?
We should have a 'Fifth Sense' for missing-sense people who cannot speak.	我们应该为残障人士，设置第五感 如，哑巴.
This technology can be used for them to speak out in a different way with maybe a speaker system."	这种技术可以让他们用另一种方式「说」出来 配个喇叭就可以."
What are your own plans? Are you staying at MIT, or are you going to do something with this?	C : 你自己的打算呢? 要留在MIT吗 还是你也要参与这些计划?
PM: I'm trying to make this more available to people so that anyone can develop their own SixthSense device, because the hardware is actually not that hard to manufacture or hard to make your own.	PM: 我正试着让这技术更广泛的被人们使用 让大家都能开发自己的"第六感"装置 因为硬件其实不难制造 自己做也不难
We will provide all the open source software for them, maybe starting next month.	我们会提供开放式程序代码软件给大家 可能下个月就可以
Open source? Wow.	C :开放程序代码﹖哇
Are you going to come back to India with some of this, at some point?	C : 你会回到印度做这些计划吗?
PM: Yeah. Yes, yes, of course.	PM: 是，是，当然.
What are your plans? MIT?	C : 你的计划呢? MIT?
India? How are you going to split your time going forward?	印度? 未来怎样分配你的时间?
PM: There is a lot of energy here. Lots of learning.	PM: 这里有很大的能量. 很多东西可以学
All of this work that you have seen is all about my learning in India.	你刚刚看到的，都是我在 印度学的.
And now, if you see, it's more about the cost-effectiveness: this system costs you $300 compared to the $20,000 surface tables, or anything like that.	往成本效益方面去考虑: 这个系统只要300美元 和2万美元的桌面计算机相比
Or maybe even the $2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $5,000?	或甚至2块美元的鼠标 当年可能要价 5,000 美元?
So, we actually -- I showed that, at a conference, to President Abdul Kalam, at that time, and then he said, "OK, we should use this in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre for some use of that."	不久前，我把这东西展示给 印度总统看 他说: "我们应该在原子研究所里 用这个技术做些研究."
So I'm excited about how I can bring the technology to the masses rather than just keeping that technology in the lab environment.	我很期待可以把这些技术带给普罗大众 而不是把这些技术留在实验室里
Based on the people we've seen at TED, I would say you're truly one of the two or three best inventors in the world right now.	C : 我们在 TED,遇过的人之中 我可以说你是少数2-3个 世界上顶尖的发明家之一
It's an honor to have you at TED.	TED很荣幸邀你来演讲.
Thank you so much.	非常感谢.
That's fantastic.	真是太棒了.
Dan Holzman: Please throw out the beanbag chairs. Here we go.	Dan Holzman:请把豆袋椅扔过来.我们开始吧.
Barry Friedman: There are all kinds of high-tech chairs here today, but this is really, I think, when it reached its peak as far as ergonomics, comfort, design, flexibility ...	Barry friedman:现在这里有许多高科技的椅子. 当它到达顶峰时,我想,这些都很 符合人类工程学,舒适度,外观设计,弯曲性的的设计
DH: Now obviously, this is not something we do on our regular show; it's something we just kind of learned for this, so we're going to try. But can we have some inspirational music for the beanbag chairs?	DH:很明显,这些不是我们的常规表演. 这是我们不经意学会的. 我们将要尝试一下。可以来点鼓舞人心的音乐吗?
BF: Nice show, Daniel, nice show. You are the man!	BF:很棒的表演,Danial,很棒.你了不起.
Nice show. Man, that was good!	很棒的表演.很好.
DH: Thank you.	DH:谢谢.
BF: You know, sometimes when people do those, they go all the way down.	BF:人们做这些的时候,他们会一直落下去.
You actually just did that.	你实际上做了这些.
That's the kind of extra effort that's gotten us where we are today ...	就是这种额外的努力让我们走到了今天。
DH: All right, let's show them something special.	DH:行,让我们来表演点特殊的.
BF: ... without a MacArthur grant.	BF:这个不需要领导批准
Yeah, look at this. You know, all kinds of different ...	对，来看看这个，全是一些不同的.....
TED is about invention, let's be honest. Right? DH: Yeah, it is.	老实讲，TED是关于发明创造的。DH:是的
BF: Last night, Michael Moschen showed some juggling props he has invented and working on.	BF：昨天Michael Moschen展示了一些杂技的道具 是他发明的而且在继续干
Right now, Dan's going to show something he actually invented.	现在，Dan准备给我们展示他发明的一些东西
DH: A type of juggling I actually invented, right after I saw another juggler do it.	DH：我自己发明的一个道具 在我看了另一个杂技演员表演之后制作的
BF: Shut up.	BF:别说了
DH: And this is a small excerpt from a longer piece.	DH:这是个小插曲
Folks, this is shaker cup juggling. It's not a showstopper but it certainly slows it down.	（鼓掌） DH：各位，这是摇摇杯道具，不是用来让大家安静的 但肯定会慢下来
BF: Oh yeah, it does.	BF:噢对，是这样
BF: Oh, Daniel.	BF:噢 Daniel
DH: One more?	（鼓掌） DH:再来一次
Perfect.	好极了
Perfect.	太棒了
BF: OK. DH: Oh! All right.	好.BF:噢!DH:好的
I'm now pushing my luck: I'm skipping right to six cups.	（鼓掌） 让我得寸进尺试一下，我来玩转6个杯子
In order to do six cups, I must have perfect control over three with my right hand.	为了表演玩转6个杯子，我必须控制好 3个杯子在我右手
BF: Also three with his left.	还有3个在我左手
DH: Perfect.	DH: 好极了
And now, all six cups. Should I do it on the first try or should I miss once on purpose?	现在有6个杯子，让我先试一下 或者放弃呢？
BF: First try? Once on purpose?	尝试，放弃
DH: How about if I try first and then decide?	放弃 我先尝试然后再决定，怎么样？
BF: Good idea. Let's leave that. We'll leave that door open.	BF: 好主意，让那个门开着
DH: He's looking at me.	DH: 他在看我
BF: That's all right, he does that. All right.	BF: 好，他做那个，好的
DH: Oh! It's time for Richard's help.	DH: 现在该Richard出场帮忙了
Oh, good. All right.	噢，对
BF: You know, over the years, every year at the conference, it's kind of become a tradition for us to do something dangerous with Richard. And we've always done something with the bullwhips in our act. It's funny, for years I did it with Daniel holding balloons.	BF: 你知道，多年以来，每年聚会时 玩点刺激的东西成了我们的惯例 还有Richard. 我们经常玩赶牛鞭子 在我们的表演中你看可以看到，很有趣，这些年都是Daniel拿气球
And then we thought, "How stupid."	我们在想，"真傻"
DH: Excuse me, could we work on the design of the microphone?	DH:对不起，我们可以做那个麦克风设计的表演吗？
BF: I think that's the next session.	BF:我想等下一个节再做
DH: Next session?	DH: 下节？
BF: Yeah. And so we've actually found a way to incorporate Richard in this.	BF: 是，我们找到了如何让Richard参与这个节目的办法
He actually assumes more of the danger in this.	他实际上做的比这个更危险
DH: Please stand up, Richard.	DH:请站好， Richard
DH: Now Richard, please ...	DH: Richard，请
BF: OK, sorry.	BF: 好， 对不起
DH: Jesus Christ. Richard, please stand in front of me.	DH: 耶稣啊. Richard, 请站到我前面
Richard Wurman: Can I say something?	Richard Wurman: 我可以说几句吗？
BF: Sure.	DH: 没问题
RW: In all past years I've rehearsed with them, the things that have happened to me -- I have no idea what's going to happen and that's the truth.	RW: 过去的每一年， 我都和他们排练这个表演 这些过去都做过 这就是 - 我不知道，是真的
DH: All right, please stand here in front ...	DH: 好，请站在 ...
God, I hate that. Put your hands out like this, please.	上帝，我讨厌那个. 把你的手这样放，谢谢
BF: No, come stay up with him.	BF: 靠前和他站一起. 这是-
Dan used to actually hold them but now he's got you for protection.	通常是Dan来拿气球的，但是现在有你保护着他
It's kind of neat. OK.	看起来挺优雅的，好
DH: Wow, you've been working out.	DF: 哇，你以前练过。
BF: No, shut up!	BF: 没有，闭嘴
Having a little bit of Richard time. That's nice, that's good.	来一点理查德的时间，真好，很好
OK, here we go.	好，我们开始
Have him hold your wrist so I can ...	让他握住你的你的手腕，这样我就可以
DH: Please hold my wrist, will you. BF: Yeah, hold this a minute.	DH: 请握住我的手腕，保持一会儿
There you go.	BF: 干得好
OK.	好的
OK, hold on.	好，保持住
RW: Hmmm.	BF: 嗯
DH: First one.	DH:第一个
BF: All those mid-year phone calls are coming back to me now, Richard.	BF: 这些年的电话都打过来了，Richard。（暗指：以前和和他练过的人）
DH: So Richard, what were we on the list? Like 1,020?	DH：那么，理查德，我们在名单上吗？1020个？
What happened there?	那里发生了什么
BF: I think we were just outside.	BF: 我想我们刚才在外边
DH: I don't get it.	（鼓掌）
DH: Sorry. BF: Having some bad flashbacks.	你这回可要被耍了
RW: Do you want me to hold you or not? DH: Don't hold me that hard.	DH: 别握我太紧
BF: Here we go, I'm taking it.	BF: 干得好，我要开始了
DH: One more, one more.	DH: 再来一次，再来一次
BF: We've got one more we're going to do.	BF: 我们已经进行了一次
RW: Do I get to hold them?	RW: 我可以抓住气球？
BF: You don't want to hold these, trust me.	BF: 对，你可不想抓，相信我
DH: Could you spread your legs a little bit?	DH: 你能分开一下腿吗？
BF: Gloria, you want to do it? It's very cool.	BF: Gloria,你想这么干？酷极了
One more try. Man, I don't want to get too close.	（鼓掌） 再来一次，哥们，我可不想它们靠的太近
Could you just push that?	你能收一下腹吗？
DH: Wow! Boy!	（鼓掌） DH:喔，哥们
BF: That's cool. I always wanted to try that.	BF:　真酷．我一直想试试刚才的那个表演
DH: Let's jump this way, though.	DH:　让我们沿着这个方向来跳
Now, we risked Richard's life, it's only fair we risk our own lives.	现在，我们冒着理查德的生命危险，只有我们冒着自己的危险才显得公平。
So to do that, I will juggle these three razor-sharp sickles.	因此，为了做到这一点，我要用这三个锋利的镰刀来杂耍。
And if that wasn't enough, and judging by your response, it's not ...	如果这个不够锋利，你们的反应也是以一样的。
DH: Wow! BF: Hoping for a little more build.	BF：哇，希望能更加锋利点。
DH: True. Barry ...	DH：是的。Barry
BF: I'm going to run up behind him.	BF：我要跑着跳过他。
DH: Leap over my shoulder.	DH：从我的肩膀上跳过。
BF: Up and over his shoulders.	BF：从他的肩膀上面越过。
DH: Grab the blades in mid-air, land right there in a pool of blood ...	DH: 在空中接到镰刀。在那着地，倒在血泊中。
Still juggling.	仍然在抽搐。
Impossible, you say?	你说，不可能？
BF: Incredible, you say?	BF：你说，不可思议？
DH: Why bother, you say?	DH：为什么自找麻烦呢，你说?
BF: Here we go.	BF：我们开始。
DH: Just do it juggler boys, you say?	DH：你说 ，玩吧杂耍男孩？
BF: This guy, this guy invented air.	BF：这家伙发明了空气。
DH: I think so, that's right.	DH：恩，是的。
Even the pencil.	即使是铅笔。
BF: He invented the pencil.	BF：他发明了铅笔。
DH: All right, we'll do this trick, but please remember it took us over 10 years to perfect.	DH：好的，我们开始这个特技，但请记住， 我们花了十年的时间来完善它。
BF: Ten years to perfect, which you're about to see.	BF：十年来完善，你们将看到的是什么呢？
DH: It's not that difficult, we just don't like to practice that much.	DH：其实没那么难，我们只是不喜欢练习太久。
BF: No, it's a hassle. Traveling too much.	BF：旅行太多，这个比较麻烦。
Actually, we will take a second to prove -- this could be fake -- that the blades are indeed razor-sharp.	事实上，我们会证实—它们可能假的— —它们可能假的—它们都是很锋利的。
DH: Will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage?	DH：有人可以扔个农场的小动物 到台上来吗？
Or a virgin for a sacrifice?	或者是个处女来牺牲。
BF: Anything?	BF：任何东西。
DH: Where's Gloria?	DH：Gloria，哪去了？
BF: No, she's got ... farm animal.	BF：她去拿农场动物去了？
DH: Do you have a small farm animal?	DH：你有农场小动物吗？
Just trying to play the odds. All right, here we go.	只是想试一下可能性。好的，我们开始。
BF: Over the top, over the top.	BF：扔过头顶，扔过头顶。
DH: How you feeling, Barry? You feeling all right?	DH：你感觉怎么样，Barry，你感觉好吗？
BF: Yeah, it's all right.	BF：恩，可以的。
DH: Do you feel everything's OK? The atmosphere, the ...	DH：你感觉所有都好吗？氛围，那个--
BF: Yeah, a little sketchy.	BF：有一点模糊。
DH: Everything up here's OK?	DH：上面所有的都好吗？
BF: Yeah.	BF：恩。
DH: Then here we go.	DH：好的，我们开始。
BF: This one's a little ... Who's doing the lights? Could you point that a little more directly into my eyeballs? Is that possible? I can still see a little.	BF：这个有一点，谁负责灯光？你可以 把这灯直射进我的眼睛吗？ 我还能看到一点点。
DH: And turn up the intensity; we're still pink in the middle.	DH：调大强度，我们中间还是粉红色的。
We went too far.	我们离得太远了。
BF: Yeah, it's too far. It's too much of a visual.	BF：恩，太远。这太多关于视觉的了。
The design of the body is a whole different thing.	身体的设计—完全不同的事情。
DH: Ready, Barry? BF: Over the top.	DH：准备好了吗，Baryy。BF：扔过头顶。
DH: May we have our jumping music please?	DH：可以放我们的音乐吗？
May we have it a bit louder?	可以大点声吗？
BF: They're a good crew! Whoa!	BF：他们是很好的工作人员！
DH: Whoa, sorry. All right.	DH：噢，噢。
BF: We're going on.	BF：我们接着来。
DH: All right, we'll try again.	DH：好的我们再试一次。
BF: All right? Oh my gosh. Oh.	BF：好了吗？天
DH: All right, here we go. Sorry about that.	DH：对不起。
BF: I thought I had the hard part. OK.	BF：我想我的部分是难的。
DH: Whenever you're ready.	DH：你什么时候可以了都可以。
BF: There we go!	BF：开始。
All right, get up! Come on and dance! DH: Dance, come on. BF: Come on and dance!	（鼓掌） 来，跳起来，快来，跳啊。
Somebody dance! Come on!	大家跳啊。
Wow, wow, OK, stop.	（鼓掌） 哇，好的，停。
Weird, no one dances. We're two guys doing this.	奇怪，没人跳舞。只有我们两在这儿这样。
I think that's uncomfortable for everyone.	这肯定让大家很不舒服。
DH: The French judge ...	DH：法国裁判—
BF: One more quick thing.	BF：再来一个
DH: The French judge gives it a 5.2.	DH：法国裁判给了5.2分。
BF: Well, you know ...	BF：恩，大家都知道—
DH: There you go ... BF: Oh, yeah. Another one coming in.	DH：恩。BF：还有另外一个
DH: Tell them about our bio and stuff.	DH：告诉他们我们的情况。
BF: Yeah. In our bio, some of you may have read that we've won two world juggling championships.	BF：恩，有些我们的经历你们可能知道。 我们获得了两次世界杂耍冠军。。
And believe it or not, you don't win juggling champions for doing things with bullwhips or shaker cups.	不管你相信与否，你不可能夺得世界杂耍冠军 靠长鞭和抖杯。
We're going to show you right now an excerpt from a routine that we used to wipe out the other juggling team competition.	我们将给大家展示一小段 我们用来与其他队 来竞争冠军的杂耍
DH: That's right.	DH:是的。
BF: Good.	好。
DH: I know what you're thinking: other juggling teams must really suck.	我知道你在想什么，别的杂耍队一定很逊色。
BF: Juggling's got a bad rap.	杂耍界有坏的说唱。
DH: But wait, Barry, there's still one more club lying there by my foot.	但是，Barry，还有一个棒子在我的脚旁边，
And look, it has a twin!	看它有一个双胞胎兄弟。
DH: There's still one more by my foot.	还有一个在我的脚的附近，
What do you want me to do with it?	你想要我怎么做。
BF: Richard you tell him, it's your last year.	理查德，理查德，你告诉他。这是你最后一年了。
DH: That's a pretty good setup, Richard.	这是一个不错的机会，理查德。
BF: Yeah, it's a good setup. That's a big setup.	恩，一个好机会。
DH: You can't get any better than that. All right. What I will do: I will use my panther-like reflexes.	我要用我黑豹般的反应。
BF: Nice.	不错。
DH: I got that -- to reach down and grab that club in my grip of steel.	我明白了，俯身用劲抓棒子。 俯身用劲抓棒子。
BF: Nice.	好的。
DH: I touched it, Barry. That should be enough.	我碰到了，Barry。这就足够了。
BF: It's progress, that's the thing.	重要的是，这是进步。
DH: How about that? I'll do it again.	刚才怎么样？噢，再尝试一次。
Oh wait, it's on your side, Barry.	哦，等一下，它在你那边，Barry。
And it's awfully windy over there.	那边有一整冷风啊！
BF: It is, it's weird. You wouldn't think it would affect half the stage, but it is. It's weird.	是的，很奇怪啊。你不认为 它会影响一半的舞台吗。是的，太怪异了。
Watch this: what I'm going to do is slide the seventh one onto my foot.	请看，我将会把第七个棒子移动到我脚上。
DH: Wow! What a great trick, Barry!	哇哦！多么厉害的把戏啊，Barry。
Oh, look how it lies there.	看，它在那躺着呢。
Oh, Barry, is there nothing you can't do?	哦，Barry，难道你一无所为吗？
You are my hero. You're my Jim Shea, Jr.	你是我的英雄，你是我的小吉姆谢伊。
Too much Olympics.	太多的奥林匹克。
BF: From my foot, I'll attempt to kick the seventh club. Here we go.	从我的脚上，我会踢起第七个棒子。
DH: Where, Barry? Where? Tell us, Barry.	哪里，Barry，哪里？告诉我们想买，Barry。
[Unclear] eagerly awaits your next syllable. What will it be?	在等着你的下一句话呢。它会是什么呢？
What gem of knowledge?	什么样的知识呢？
What pearl of wisdom?	什么样的才智呢？
Do you want to buy a vowel, Barry?	你一个吗？Barry，
Is that your final answer?	这就是你最后的答案？
BF: All right! You have to turn off the TV from time to time.	好的。你有时必须得关闭电视。
DH: I do, I do.	好的，好的。
BF: From my foot, the kick up in the seven.	从我的脚上，踢起第七个。
DH: We will juggle seven.	我们能玩七个。
BF: From six to seven. DH: That's a world's record. BF: Really? DH: For us.	从六个到七个。DH：这是一个世界纪录。我们的。
BF: Yes.	是的
DH: Whenever you're ready there, big guy.	大个子，无论你什么时候准备好。
Put your tongue away, Barry.	收回你的舌头。Barry。
BF: Oh, oh, whoa.	哦，哦，喔。
DH: Please, please stay seated. Stay seated. Thank you.	（鼓掌） 请，请安静。安静。谢谢。
Because now, to make this twice as difficult, we'll juggle the seven clubs back ...	因为现在我们要把它变的更加困难。 我们会把这七个棒子往后抛。
BF: Seven-club juggling.	七个棒子的杂耍。
DH: ... to back.	DH：背对背。
BF: Thank you, that's it.	BF：谢谢，就是这样。
BF: Thank you guys!	BF：谢谢大家
DH: Thank you very much!	DH：非常感谢
So let me just start with my story.	现在开始讲述我的故事
So I tore my knee joint meniscus cartilage playing soccer in college.	在大学踢足球时 我将我的半月板软骨撕裂
Then I went on to tear my ACL, the ligament in my knee, and then developed an arthritic knee.	随后，我的前十字韧带也被撕裂了 但不久之后，人工膝盖出现了
And I'm sure that many of you in this audience have that same story, and, by the way, I married a woman who has exactly the same story.	我确信在座的很多听众都经历过此类的事情 顺便说一句，我结婚了 我的妻子也经历过同样的事情
So this motivated me to become an orthopedic surgeon and to see if I couldn't focus on solutions for those problems that would keep me playing sports and not limit me.	这些事情促使我成为一名整形外科医生 我希望能够解决如何让我们 如何可以无拘束的运动问题
So with that, let me just show you a quick video to get you in the mood of what we're trying to explain.	带着这个问题，我先让我们看一个简短的视频 让它带着你们了解我们所希望解决的问题
We are all aware of the risk of cancer, but there's another disease that's destined to affect even more of us: arthritis.	视频我们都很关注癌症的风险 但是还有另一种疾病 能够比癌症还要影响更多的人—关节炎
Cancer may kill you, but when you look at the numbers, arthritis ruins more lives.	癌症也许会让你死亡，但关节炎 会毁掉更多人的生活
Assuming you live a long life, there's a 50 percent chance you'll develop arthritis.	假设你可活得很长命，你将有50%的概率 患上关节炎
And it's not just aging that causes arthritis.	这并不是因为年老而引起的疾病
Common injuries can lead to decades of pain, until our joints quite literally grind to a halt.	常见的损伤可以导致数十年的伤痛 直到关节经过长时间磨损而停止工作
Desperate for a solution, we've turned to engineering to design artificial components to replace our worn-out body parts, but in the midst of the modern buzz around the promises of a bionic body, shouldn't we stop and ask if there's a better, more natural way?	我们迫切地想得到解决的方法，随之我们转向工程学 以来设计人造关节 来替代我们早已磨损且不堪重负的身体器官 但在研究新方法时 都是围绕着仿生学这一前提 我们是否应该暂时停下脚步看看有没有更好、更自然的方法
Let's consider an alternative path.	让我们一起考虑一个替代方法
What if all the replacements our bodies need already exist in nature, or within our own stem cells?	如果我们将我们身体某一部分的需要替换为 已经存在的生物器官 又或者用我们自己的干细胞培养会怎么样
This is the field of biologic replacements, where we replace worn-out parts with new, natural ones.	这就是生物置换领域 它将我们已磨损的器官替换为新的、自然的器官
Kevin Stone: And so, the mission is: how do I treat these things biologically?	Kevin Stone：任务就是 我们如何用生物学知识处理这类事情
And let's talk about both what I did for my wife, and what I've done for hundreds of other patients.	下面然我们谈谈，我对我的妻子 以及数以百计的病人的治疗方法
First thing for my wife, and the most common thing I hear from my patients, particularly in the 40- to 80-year-old age group, 70-year-old age group, is they come in and say, "Hey, Doc, isn't there just a shock absorber you can put in my knee?	这是从我的妻子那里最先听到的 以及从我的患者口中 尤其是那些40-80岁年龄组中的70岁年龄组 最常听到的是 嘿，医生，我的膝盖中的放得只是一个减震器对吗
I'm not ready for joint replacement."	我并没有做好换关节的准备
And so for her, I put in a human meniscus allograft donor right into that [knee] joint space.	对我的妻子来说我对她进了半月板手术 在膝盖连接处行了同种异体的植入
And [the allograft] replaces [the missing meniscus].	这种异基因移植物替换了缺失的半月板
And then for that unstable ligament, we put in a human donor ligament to stabilize the knee.	随后对原来的韧带进行替换 我们放入了其他人捐赠的韧带 以使她的膝盖得到稳定的支撑
And then for the damaged arthritis on the surface, we did a stem cell paste graft, which we designed in 1991, to regrow that articular cartilage surface and give it back a smooth surface there.	第三，则是对关节表面的损坏 我们进行了干细胞黏贴移植 这个则是我们在1991年设计出来的 可以使得关节软骨组织再生 使他们还原为光滑的表面
So here's my wife's bad knee on the left, and her just hiking now four months later in Aspen, and doing well.	左边这个是我爱人原已损坏的膝盖 但是看右边，她在四个月后的Aspen 已经可以徒步旅行了，并且一切都很好
And it works, not just for my wife, but certainly for other patients.	手术成功了，但并这个成功并不仅仅局限于我的爱人，其他患者也同样受益
The girl on the video, Jen Hudak, just won the Superpipe in Aspen just nine months after having destroyed her knee, as you see in the other image -- and having a paste graft to that knee.	视频中的女孩，Jen Hudak 刚刚在Aspen赢得了雪道滑雪 而这发生在她膝盖损坏后的九个月 正如你们看到视频 她有着经过干细胞修复过的膝盖
And so we can regrow these surfaces biologically.	所以我们从生物学的角度将是可以修复关节表面的
So with all this success, why isn't that good enough, you might ask.	所以经过了这些的成功 你们也许会问为什么还不够好呢
Well the reason is because there's not enough donor cycles.	这是因为还没有足够的数据来支撑这个实践
There's not enough young, healthy people falling off their motorcycle and donating that tissue to us.	没有足够健康的年轻人 从他们的模特车上摔倒 并且将他们的器官捐赠给我们
And the tissue's very expensive.	并且这个手术十分昂贵
And so that's not going to be a solution that's going to get us global with biologic tissue.	这就是这个办法没有得到普及的原因 也使得我们将事业放眼于全球去寻找合适的生物组织
But the solution is animal tissue because it's plentiful, it's cheap, you can get it from young, healthy tissues, but the barrier is immunology.	随后我们用动物组织进行替代 因为生物组织可以随处找到，并且价格也不高 并且可以得到年轻、健康的生物组织 但是，该种方法的障碍就是免疫问题
And the specific barrier is a specific epitope called the galactosyl, or gal epitope.	这种特别的障碍是由 特殊的抗原决定基所导致 这种抗原决定基就是"半乳糖基"
So if we're going to transplant animal tissues to people, we have to figure out a way to get rid of that epitope.	所以，如果我们想将动物组织移植到人类的身体上 则必须找到一种方法去除掉半乳糖基
So my story in working with animal tissues starts in 1984.	所以我的工作 从1984年开始研究动物组织
And I started first with cow Achilles tendon, where we would take the cow Achilles tendon, which is type-I collagen, strip it of its antigens by degrading it with an acid and detergent wash and forming it into a regeneration template.	我首先从 牛的跟腱开始 我们可以将牛的跟腱中的 一种胶原质 从其抗原中分离 进过一种酸和清洁剂的冲洗降解 使其成为一种再生模板
We would then take that regeneration template and insert it into the missing meniscus cartilage to regrow that in a patient's knee.	我们随后可以将这个再生模板 插入半月板软骨撕裂处 让其在患者的膝盖再生
We've now done that procedure, and it's been done worldwide in over 4,000 cases, so it's an FDA-approved and worldwide-accepted way to regrow the meniscus.	直到现在，通过使用这种方法 我们已经在全球范围内治愈了逾4000位患者 所以这是一个可以被美国食品及药物管理局以及全世界所接受的 膝盖半月板再生法
And that's great when I can degrade the tissue.	而且当我们能够降解生物组织时将会更好
But what happens for your ligament when I need an intact ligament?	但是，当你需要一个完整的韧带时
I can't grind it up in a blender.	我不能将其在搅拌机里将其磨碎
So in that case, I have to design -- and we designed with Uri Galili and Tom Turek -- an enzyme wash to wash away, or strip, those galactosyl epitopes with a specific enzyme.	所以，这种情况下 我必须进行研究设计，与我一起设计的还有Uri Galili和Tom Turek 我们一起设计一种酶洗之法 用一种特殊的酶 以洗掉或脱离掉 那些半乳糖抗原决定基
And we call that a "gal stripping" technique.	这种酶素洗法我们称之为"半乳糖脱离"技术
What we do is humanize the tissue.	我们所做的就是将组织做的更加人性化
It's by gal stripping that tissue we humanize it , and then we can put it back into a patient's knee.	用半乳糖脱离法 我们可以将其处理的更加接近人的组织 然后我们就可以 将这个组织放回患者的膝盖处
And we've done that. Now we've taken pig ligament -- young, healthy, big tissue, put it into 10 patients in an FDA-approved trial -- and then one of our patients went on to have three Canadian Masters Downhill championships -- on his "pig-lig," as he calls it. So we know it can work.	我们已经做过这个实验，现在我们采用猪的韧带 年轻的、健康的、大的组织 将其放入是为患者的体内，当然这个实验是经过美国食品药品监督管理局的批准 不久，其中一位患者就继续参加了 三个加拿大斜坡大师冠军赛 当然，这都是经过他自己称之为"猪膝盖"的做功。这让我们了解到这种方法管用
And there's a wide clinical trial of this tissue now pending.	而且，一个更大规模的临床试验将要进行
So what about the next step?	那么我们的下一步将会做什么
What about getting to a total biologic knee replacement, not just the parts?	做一个整体生物膝盖置换怎么样 不再局限于一个部分
How are we going to revolutionize artificial joint replacement?	我们如何对人在关节置换进行革命性改变
Well here's how we're going to do it.	这就是我们如何做这件事情
So what we're going to do is take an articular cartilage from a young, healthy pig, strip it of its antigens, load it with your stem cells, then put it back on to that arthritic surface in your knee, tack it on there, have you heal that surface and then create a new biologic surface for your knee.	我们将会用一个 来自年轻、健康的猪的 关节软骨 剥离掉它的抗原 载上你自己的干细胞 然后将其放回 你自己膝盖处的关节 将其固定，让你自己治愈破损的表面 并让其自己为你的膝盖生长一个新的生物表面
So that's our biologic approach right now.	这就是我们现在的生物方法
We're going to rebuild your knee with the parts.	我们可以用部分组织让你的膝盖得以重生
We're going to resurface it with a completely new surface.	我们将原组织表面生成一个全新的表面
But we have other advantages from the animal kingdom.	但是，我们可以从动物王国哪里得到其他的利益
There's a benefit of 400 million years of ambulation.	这个利益是他们有四亿年的 移动历史
We can harness those benefits.	我们可以利用那些有事
We can use thicker, younger, better tissues than you might have injured in your knee, or that you might have when you're 40, 50 or 60.	我们可以利用那些更加厚实、年轻 比你自身更好的组织 或比你40、50、60岁时更好的组织
We can do it as an outpatient procedure.	我们可以将其发展为门诊式的程序
We can strip that tissue very economically, and so this is how we can get biologic knee replacement to go global.	我们还可以将脱离技术发展为更为经济的方法 这就是我们如何在全球范围内 获得生物膝盖置换的方法
And so welcome to super biologics.	欢迎进入生物学的世界
It's not hardware.	他不是硬件
It's not software.	也不是软件
It's bioware.	是生物部件
It's version 2.0 of you.	是你身体部件的第二代
And so with that, coming to a -- coming to an operating theater near you soon, I believe.	我深信不久人们将会在 各个医院中见到它的使用
Thank you very much.	谢谢
Okay, I'm going to show you again something about our diets.	好了，我向大家再次展示 我们饮食中的食用昆虫。
And I would like to know what the audience is, and so who of you ever ate insects?	我想知道观众中有多少人吃过昆虫。 大家曾吃过昆虫吗？
That's quite a lot.	非常多。
But still, you're not representing the overall population of the Earth.	但尽管如此，你们并不代表 这地球上的所有人。
Because there's 80 percent out there that really eats insects.	因为地球上百分之八十的人食用昆虫。
But this is quite good.	但在场吃过昆虫的人也相当多了。
Why not eat insects? Well first, what are insects?	为什么不吃昆虫呢？首先，什么是昆虫？
Insects are animals that walk around on six legs.	用六条腿行走的动物就是昆虫。
And here you see just a selection.	你在这图中看到的昆虫仅是一部分。
There's six million species of insects on this planet, six million species.	在这地球上，有六百万种昆虫， 六百万种。
There's a few hundreds of mammals -- six million species of insects.	哺乳动物仅有几百种， 昆虫却有六百万种。
In fact, if we count all the individual organisms, we would come at much larger numbers.	事实上，假如我们考虑所有生物个体， 我们会得到更大的数目。
In fact, of all animals on Earth, of all animal species, 80 percent walks on six legs.	事实是地球上所有的动物， 所有动物种类， 百分之八十的物种都是六条腿行走的动物。
But if we would count all the individuals, and we take an average weight of them, it would amount to something like 200 to 2,000 kilograms for each of you and me on Earth.	但如果我们计算所有的个体， 称量他们的平均重量， 昆虫平均重量会是200到2000公斤， 相比起地球上，你我中的每一个而言。
That means that in terms of biomass, insects are more abundant than we are, and we're not on a planet of men, but we're on a planet of insects.	在生物量上， 昆虫比我们人类要更加充足。 其实我们不是生活在一个人类星球上， 而是在一个昆虫星球上。
Insects are not only there in nature, but they also are involved in our economy, usually without us knowing.	昆虫不仅仅存在于自然界， 它们还跟我们的经济息息相关， 只是通常人们没有察觉。
There was an estimation, a conservative estimation, a couple of years ago that the U.S. economy benefited by 57 billion dollars per year.	几年前，有个 保守的估计， 美国经济每年 因昆虫而获益五百七十亿 美元。
It's a number -- very large -- a contribution to the economy of the United States for free.	这对美国经济是个非常大的 贡献，而且是无偿的。
And so I looked up what the economy was paying for the war in Iraq in the same year.	接着我查看了同一年美国经济 在伊拉克战争的支出是多少 。
It was 80 billion U.S. dollars.	八百亿美元。
Well we know that that was not a cheap war.	我们都知道伊拉克战争 花费不菲。
So insects, just for free, contribute to the economy of the United States with about the same order of magnitude, just for free, without everyone knowing.	而昆虫， 它们 以同样的数百亿美元 对美国经济作出的无偿贡献，却鲜为人知。
And not only in the States, but in any country, in any economy.	昆虫的贡献不只局限于美国， 而是对世界上任何一个国家，任何一个经济体。
What do they do?	昆虫都做了什么？
They remove dung, they pollinate our crops.	它们清除粪便，给农作物授粉。
A third of all the fruits that we eat are all a result of insects taking care of the reproduction of plants.	我们食用水果中的三分之一 都是 靠它们传粉长成的。
They control pests, and they're food for animals.	他们抑制害虫。 也是其他动物的食物来源。
They're at the start of food chains.	昆虫位于食物链的底端。
Small animals eat insects.	小动物吃昆虫。
Even larger animals eat insects.	大动物也不例外。
But the small animals that eat insects are being eaten by larger animals, still larger animals.	但食用昆虫的小动物 也会被大一点的动物， 甚至更大型的动物捕食。
And at the end of the food chain, we are eating them as well.	在食物链的末端，是我们人类食用这些动物。
There's quite a lot of people that are eating insects.	相当多的人吃昆虫。
And here you see me in a small, provincial town in China, Lijiang -- about two million inhabitants.	这幅图，大家看到我 在中国的一个小省城，丽江-- 这里大约有2百万居民。
If you go out for dinner, like in a fish restaurant, where you can select which fish you want to eat, you can select which insects you would like to eat.	如果你外出就餐，就像在鱼庄， 你可以选择你想吃的鱼类产品一样， 选择你想吃的昆虫食品。
And they prepare it in a wonderful way.	他们会烹饪出非常特别的昆虫佳肴。
And here you see me enjoying a meal with caterpillars, locusts, bee pupae -- delicacies.	所以你看到的是，我在享用一顿， 有毛毛虫和蚱蜢， 蜜蜂等的美味佳肴。
And you can eat something new everyday.	每天你都可以尝个鲜。
There's more than 1,000 species of insects that are being eaten all around the globe.	全球各地，人们正在食用1000余种 的昆虫。
That's quite a bit more than just a few mammals that we're eating, like a cow or a pig or a sheep.	种类远远多于 人们食用的那么几种哺乳动物， 例如牛，猪， 或者羊。
More than 1,000 species -- an enormous variety.	1000多种-- 极其丰富。
And now you may think, okay, in this provincial town in China they're doing that, but not us.	现在大家可能会想， 那只是这个中国小城镇的人这么吃罢了，我们可不这样。
Well we've seen already that quite some of you already ate insects maybe occasionally, but I can tell you that every one of you is eating insects, without any exception.	可是，我们已经看到在场的很多人 都吃过昆虫，尽管有些只是偶然吃了一次。 但我要告诉大家，我们每个人都吃昆虫， 无一例外。
You're eating at least 500 grams per year.	大家每年至少吃 500克昆虫。
What are you eating?	这怎么会呢？
Tomato soup, peanut butter, chocolate, noodles -- any processed food that you're eating contains insects, because insects are here all around us, and when they're out there in nature they're also in our crops.	番茄汤，花生酱， 巧克力，面条-- 你吃过的任何加工食品 都含有昆虫， 因为昆虫就在我们身边， 它们在外边自然界中， 它们也在我们的农作物中。
Some fruits get some insect damage.	一些水果进了虫有些损害。
Those are the fruits, if they're tomato, that go to the tomato soup.	如果是番茄， 他们就被制成番茄汤。
If they don't have any damage, they go to the grocery.	如果它们完好无损，则会被售往杂货店。
And that's your view of a tomato.	这是你们看到的是番茄。
But there's tomatoes that end up in a soup, and as long as they meet the requirements of the food agency, there can be all kinds of things in there, no problem.	但还有被制成汤的番茄。 只要它们符合 食品署的要求， 加工食品里可以有各种各样的东西， 这没有问题。
In fact, why would we put these balls in the soup, there's meat in there anyway?	事实上，我们为什么还往汤里放肉丸呢？ 里面不早就有昆虫肉了吗？
In fact, all our processed foods contain more proteins than we would be aware of.	其实，我们所有的加工食品 所含的蛋白质 比我们想象的要多得多。
So anything is a good protein source already.	所以加工食品都是不错的蛋白质的来源。
Now you may say, "Okay, so we're eating 500 grams just by accident."	现在大家会说， "好吧，我们只是'不小心'吃了500克的昆虫。"
We're even doing this on purpose.	可是我们在很多食物中
In a lot of food items that we have -- I have only two items here on the slide -- pink cookies or surimi sticks or, if you like, Campari -- a lot of our food products that are of a red color are dyed with a natural dye.	有意食用昆虫。 在幻灯片中，我这儿仅有2个例子 -- 粉红色的饼干和蟹肉条 又或者，堪培利开胃酒。 我们许多食物生产中的红色 都是用天然色素染成的。
The surimi sticks [of] crabmeat, or is being sold as crab meat, is white fish that's being dyed with cochineal.	蟹肉棒 就是蟹肉，或被卖成蟹肉， 它是白鱼 被染上胭脂红。
Cochineal is a product of an insect that lives off these cacti.	而胭脂红是提取于 一种靠仙人掌生活的昆虫产品。
It's being produced in large amounts, 150 to 180 metric tons per year in the Canary Islands in Peru, and it's big business.	胭脂红 以每年150到180公吨大量生产， 在秘鲁的加那利群岛， 这是笔大买卖。
One gram of cochineal costs about 30 euros.	一克胭脂红 价值约30欧元。
One gram of gold is 30 euros.	一克黄金 也是30欧元。
So it's a very precious thing that we're using to dye our foods.	所以胭脂红是非常宝贵的东西， 我们用它来给食物染色。
Now the situation in the world is going to change for you and me, for everyone on this Earth.	现在全球情况正在变化， 对你我，地球上每个人而言。
The human population is growing very rapidly and is growing exponentially.	人口总数正快速地， 成倍地增长着。
Where, at the moment, we have something between six and seven billion people, it will grow to about nine billion in 2050.	目前地球上有 60亿到70亿人口， 到2050年，总人口数会增加到 约90亿。
That means that we have a lot more mouths to feed, and this is something that worries more and more people.	这意味着我们有更多的人口要养活。 这是个让越来越多人担忧的问题。
There was an FAO conference last October that was completely devoted to this.	去年十月粮农组织大会 特此就这问题而召开。
How are we going to feed this world?	我们将怎样养活这个世界？
And if you look at the figures up there, it says that we have a third more mouths to feed, but we need an agricultural production increase of 70 percent.	请注意上边粮农组织的数据， 它说我们还有多于现在三分之一的人口要养活， 但这需要农业生产提高 百分之七十。
And that's especially because this world population is increasing, and it's increasing, not only in numbers, but we're also getting wealthier, and anyone that gets wealthier starts to eat more and also starts to eat more meat.	这尤其是因为世界人口总数 在增加， 不仅仅是数量的增加， 而且我们也变得富有了， 人们一旦富裕了就会开始吃更多的食物 也开始吃更多的肉。
And meat, in fact, is something that costs a lot of our agricultural production.	实际上，肉类食品的 农业生产成本 很高。
Our diet consists, [in] some part, of animal proteins, and at the moment, most of us here get it from livestock, from fish, from game.	我们饮食由许多动物蛋白质组成， 目前，在这儿，我们中多数人 从家畜， 鱼类，或野味中获取动物蛋白质。
And we eat quite a lot of it.	我们吃很多肉。
In the developed world it's on average 80 kilograms per person per year, which goes up to 120 in the United States and a bit lower in some other countries, but on average 80 kilograms per person per year.	在发达国家，平均每人每年食用 80公斤的肉， 美国的平均值 更是高达120公斤， 其他一些国家稍微低点， 但平均下来是 每人每年80公斤。
In the developing world it's much lower.	在发展中国家这个平均值要低得多。
It's 25 kilograms per person per year.	每人每年25公斤。
But it's increasing enormously.	但增长很快。
In China in the last 20 years, it increased from 20 to 50, and it's still increasing.	在中国过去20年中， 这平均值从20公斤增加到了50公斤， 这将会持续下去。
So if a third of the world population is going to increase its meat consumption from 25 to 80 on average, and a third of the world population is living in China and in India, we're having an enormous demand on meat.	那么如果世界人口的三分之一 正增加他们的肉消费 平均从25公斤增长到80公斤， 另外，世界人口的三分之一 正生活在中国和印度， 我们对肉类食品的需求会变得相当大。
And of course, we are not there to say that's only for us, it's not for them.	当然，我们不是说， 肉食需求只是对我们而言，不用考虑他们。
They have the same share that we have.	他们和我们一样，享有同等的需求。
Now to start with, I should say that we are eating way too much meat in the Western world.	我必须说， 在西方国家， 我们吃的肉太多了。
We could do with much, much less -- and I know, I've been a vegetarian for a long time, and you can easily do without anything.	我们其实只需要吃很少就可以， 我知道因为我食素已经很久了。 大家能很容易地做到这一点。
You'll get proteins in any kind of food anyway.	从任何食物中都能获取蛋白质。
But then there's a lot of problems that come with meat production, and we're being faced with that more and more often.	然而肉类食品的生产， 却带有很多问题， 而且这些问题会越来越普遍。
The first problem that we're facing is human health.	我们要面对的第一个问题是人类健康。
Pigs are quite like us.	猪很像我们人类。
They're even models in medicine, and we can even transplant organs from a pig to a human.	在医学上，猪是人类的临床试验的替代品。 我们甚至可以把猪的器官移植到人身上。
That means that pigs also share diseases with us.	这表明猪和人类有很多共同的疾病。
And a pig disease, a pig virus, and a human virus can both proliferate, and because of their kind of reproduction, they can combine and produce a new virus.	而猪的疾病， 猪的病毒，和人类的病毒 都能繁殖并扩散。 正因为这种繁殖系统， 猪和人携带的病毒可能变异，并生成一种新病毒。
This has happened in the Netherlands in the 1990s during the classical swine fever outbreak.	1990年代荷兰发生过的 典型猪疫就是这么一例。
You get a new disease that can be deadly.	产生的这种新疾病是会致命的。
We eat insects -- they're so distantly related from us that this doesn't happen.	大家吃昆虫，因为昆虫和我们非常不相像， 所以这种病毒的变异不会发生。
So that's one point for insects.	这是食用昆虫的一点。
And there's the conversion factor.	还有转换因素。
You take 10 kilograms of feed, you can get one kilogram of beef, but you can get nine kilograms of locust meat.	用10公斤饲料， 大家可以得到1公斤的牛肉， 但也可以得到9公斤的蚱蜢肉。
So if you would be an entrepreneur, what would you do?	要是你是个企业家， 你会做什么？
With 10 kilograms of input, you can get either one or nine kg. of output.	10公斤的投入， 你会得到也许1公斤或者9公斤的产出。
So far we're taking the one, or up to five kilograms of output.	目前，我们只是选择了这 1公斤，或者5公斤的产出。
We're not taking the bonus yet.	我们还没选择那红利
We're not taking the nine kilograms of output yet.	那9公斤的产出。
So that's two points for insects.	这是昆虫的第二点好处。
And there's the environment.	还有环境。
If we take 10 kilograms of food -- and it results in one kilogram of beef, the other nine kilograms are waste, and a lot of that is manure.	我们假如用10公斤饲料-- 它会产出1公斤牛肉， 和其他9公斤的排泄物， 许多是粪便。
If you produce insects, you have less manure per kilogram of meat that you produce.	假如你生产昆虫，你生产每公斤的昆虫肉， 你有更少的粪便。
So less waste.	更少的排泄物。
Furthermore, per kilogram of manure, you have much, much less ammonia and fewer greenhouse gases when you have insect manure than when you have cow manure.	此外，每公斤昆虫粪便 产生的氨 和温室气体， 比起牛的粪便 要少得多。
So you have less waste, and the waste that you have is not as environmental malign as it is with cow dung.	那么昆虫有更少的排泄物， 而且昆虫排泄物不像牛粪一样 对环境有害。
So that's three points for insects.	这是昆虫的第三点好处。
Now there's a big "if," of course, and it is if insects produce meat that is of good quality.	当然还有个大疑问， 那就是昆虫是否能有肉类食品 那样高的营养价值。
Well there have been all kinds of analyses and in terms of protein, or fat, or vitamins, it's very good.	所有分析表明 昆虫的蛋白质，脂肪，还有维他命 都非常丰富。
In fact, it's comparable to anything we eat as meat at the moment.	事实上，它可以 和目前我们吃的任何肉食相媲美。
And even in terms of calories, it is very good.	即使按热量来衡量，昆虫也是很不错的。
One kilogram of grasshoppers has the same amount of calories as 10 hot dogs, or six Big Macs.	比起10个热狗，或者6个巨无霸， 一公斤蚱蜢能提供同等的 卡路里。
So that's four points for insects.	这是食用昆虫的第四点好处。
I can go on, and I could make many more points for insects, but time doesn't allow this.	我可以继续说 许多食用昆虫的好处， 但时间不容许。
So the question is, why not eat insects?	所以问题是，为什么不食用昆虫呢？
I gave you at least four arguments in favor.	我已经给了大家至少4个食用昆虫的理由。
We'll have to.	我们得亲自试试。
Even if you don't like it, you'll have to get used to this because at the moment, 70 percent of all our agricultural land is being used to produce livestock.	即使你不喜欢吃昆虫， 你也得学着去适应它。 因为目前， 我们农业用地的百分之七十 都在用来饲养牲畜。
That's not only the land where the livestock is walking and feeding, but it's also other areas where the feed is being produced and being transported.	这不仅包括 牲畜圈养地和喂养的地方， 还包括 用于生产和运输的饲料储存地。
We can increase it a bit at the expense of rainforests, but there's a limitation very soon.	我们可以增加一点农业用地， 牺牲雨林， 但不久这就会到一个极限。
And if you remember that we need to increase agricultural production by 70 percent, we're not going to make it that way.	如果大家记得，我们需要提高 农业生产百分之七十， 但我们做不到这点。
We could much better change from meat, from beef, to insects.	所以我们最好 从肉食，从牛肉， 转变到食用昆虫。
And then 80 percent of the world already eats insects, so we are just a minority -- in a country like the U.K., the USA, the Netherlands, anywhere.	世界上百分之八十的人 已经食用昆虫， 我们只是少数的一部分人， 例如来自英国，美国， 荷兰等其他地方的少数一部分不食用昆虫的人。
On the left-hand side, you see a market in Laos where they have abundantly present all kinds of insects that you choose for dinner for the night.	在左手边，你看到的是老挝的市场 那里，人们会大量买卖 各种各样的昆虫，用来做晚餐。
On the right-hand side you see a grasshopper.	在右手边，你看到的是蚱蜢。
So people there are eating them, not because they're hungry, but because they think it's a delicacy.	那里的人们吃蚱蜢， 不是因为他们没有肉吃， 而是因为他们觉得昆虫很美味。
It's just very good food.	昆虫是非常棒的食物。
You can vary enormously.	人们可以享用很多种类的昆虫。
It has many benefits.	这有很多好处。
In fact, we have delicacy that's very much like this grasshopper: shrimps, a delicacy being sold at a high price.	事实上，很多我们所谓的美味 像极了这种蚱蜢： 虾，一种美味 卖得很贵。
Who wouldn't like to eat a shrimp?	谁不喜欢吃虾呢？
There are a few people who don't like shrimp, but shrimp, or crabs, or crayfish, are very closely related.	极少的人不喜欢吃虾， 但是龙虾，螃蟹 或者小龙虾 都是非常相似的种类。
They are delicacies.	它们都是美味佳肴。
In fact, a locust is a "shrimp" of the land, and it would make very good into our diet.	事实上，蚱蜢就是陆地上的龙虾， 蚱蜢会使我们的饮食变得非常丰富。
So why are we not eating insects yet?	那么我们为什么还不食用昆虫呢？
Well that's just a matter of mindset.	也许这是心理的问题。
We're not used to it, and we see insects as these organisms that are very different from us.	我们不习惯吃昆虫， 我们视昆虫，这些生物与我们格格不入。
That's why we're changing the perception of insects.	这就是为什么我们正试图改变人们对昆虫的认知。
And I'm working very hard with my colleague, Arnold van Huis, in telling people what insects are, what magnificent things they are, what magnificent jobs they do in nature.	我和我的同事， Arnold van Huis阿诺德·范·休伊斯，尽我们所能， 告诉人们什么是昆虫， 他们有什么特别之处， 在大自然中，他们起到怎样举足轻重的作用。
And in fact, without insects, we would not be here in this room, because if the insects die out, we will soon die out as well.	实际上，没有昆虫， 我们人类也不会出现在这屋子里。 因为如果昆虫灭绝， 我们人类也会很快灭绝。
If we die out, the insects will continue very happily.	假如人类灭绝了，昆虫还会很快乐地繁衍下去。
So we have to get used to the idea of eating insects.	所以我们得去适应食用昆虫的想法。
And some might think, well they're not yet available.	有些人会想，昆虫还没被量产以至于可以日常食用。
Well they are.	其实昆虫已经被量产。
There are entrepreneurs in the Netherlands that produce them, and one of them is here in the audience, Marian Peeters, who's in the picture.	在荷兰，企业家们生产昆虫， 在现场观众中就有他们中的一员， 玛丽安.彼得斯，照片里的这位。
I predict that later this year, you'll get them in the supermarkets -- not visible, but as animal protein in the food.	我预计今年年底，大家会在超市买到昆虫食品， 不是一眼就能辨认出来，而是作为动物蛋白质 出现在食物里。
And maybe by 2020, you'll buy them just knowing that this is an insect that you're going to eat.	也许到2020年， 你买昆虫食品的时候就知道这是一种可食用的昆虫。
And they're being made in the most wonderful ways.	它们会被做成最美味的佳肴。
A Dutch chocolate maker.	一位荷兰的巧克力师傅。
So there's even a lot of design to it.	可以有很多设计来制作昆虫巧克力。
Well in the Netherlands, we have an innovative Minister of Agriculture, and she puts the insects on the menu in her restaurant in her ministry.	在荷兰，我们有一位富有革新精神的农业部长， 在她任职期间，在餐馆她要求把昆虫 添加到主菜单。
And when she got all the Ministers of Agriculture of the E.U.	当她最近邀请欧盟所有农业部长
over to the Hague recently, she went to a high-class restaurant, and they ate insects all together.	来海牙时， 她在一家高级餐馆招待所有部长， 他们所有人一起食用昆虫。
It's not something that is a hobby of mine.	这不是我的个人爱好。
It's really taken off the ground.	这是实实在在发生的事。
So why not eat insects?	为什么不吃昆虫呢？
You should try it yourself.	你得亲自试试。
A couple of years ago, we had 1,750 people all together in a square in Wageningen town, and they ate insects at the same moment, and this was still big, big news.	几年前，我们同时有1750个人一起， 在荷兰瓦赫宁恩城的广场上， 食用昆虫， 这在当时还是个大新闻。
I think soon it will not be big news anymore when we all eat insects, because it's just a normal way of doing.	我认为不久，当我们所有人都吃昆虫时，这就不会是大新闻了， 因为这再平常不过了。
So you can try it yourself today, and I would say, enjoy.	那么今天大家会亲自食用昆虫， 我会说享用吧。
And I'm going to show to Bruno some first tries, and he can have the first bite.	我有请布鲁诺来尝试一下， 他尝第一口。
Look at them first. Look at them first.	Bruno Giussani布鲁诺·朱萨尼：先看看这些美味。
Marcel Dicke: It's all protein.	Marcel Dicke马赛·狄基：都是蛋白质。
That's exactly the same [one] you saw in the video actually.	BG：它们的确是大家在视频里看到的昆虫美味。
And it looks delicious.	它们看起来非常可口。
They just make it [with] nuts or something.	他们用坚果或者别的东西来点缀昆虫。
MD: Thank you.	MD：谢谢。
I want to talk about what we learn from conservatives.	我想告诉大家 我们可以从保守的角度学到什么。
And I'm at a stage in life where I'm yearning for my old days, so I want to confess to you that when I was a kid, indeed, I was a conservative.	我站在我渴望已久的人生舞台上 坦白的告诉各位 当我还是一个小孩时 我已经是保守派了
I was a Young Republican, a Teenage Republican, a leader in the Teenage Republicans.	我曾经是少年共和党员， 担任过青少年共和党的领袖
Indeed, I was the youngest member of any delegation in the 1980 convention that elected Ronald Reagan to be the Republican nominee for president.	实际上，我曾是最年轻的成员 在所有代表团中都是 1980年共和党大会上，罗纳德里根被选中 他被提名为共和党的总统候选人
Now, I know what you're thinking.	现在我知道你们在想什么。
You're thinking, "That's not what the Internets say."	你们在想："网上可没这么说。"
You're thinking, "Wikipedia doesn't say this fact."	你们会想："维基百科上没有提到呀。"
And indeed, this is just one of the examples of the junk that flows across the tubes in these Internets here.	实际上，这就是一个例子 一个网上垃圾信息泛滥的例子 在互联网上
Wikipedia reports that this guy, this former congressman from Erie, Pennsylvania was, at the age of 20, one of the youngest people at the Republican National Convention, but it's just not true.	维基百科记载了这个家伙， 这位来自伊利市的前宾夕法尼亚众议院国会议员 曾在20岁时作为最年轻的参会者之一 参加了共和党全国大会 但这不对。
Indeed, it drives me so nuts, let me just change this little fact here.	事实上，这条很让我难受，让我现在就把它纠正过来。
All right. Okay, so ... perfect.	好了，这样才完美。
Perfect.	非常好。
Okay, speaker Lawrence Lessig, right.	好的，演讲者劳伦斯莱斯格，对了。
Okay.	好。
Finally, truth will be brought here.	最后，真相将被写到这里。
Okay, see? It's done. It's almost done. Here we go.	看到没？完成了，差不多了，我们继续。
"... Youngest Republican," okay, we're finished.	"最年轻的共和党员" 很好，我们搞订了。
That's it. Please save this.	请保存。
Great, here we go.	这样就可以了。
And ... Wikipedia is fixed, finally.	维基百科最终还是被修正了
Okay, but no, this is really besides the point.	好吧，这已超出我们的话题了。
But the thing I want you to think about when we think about conservatives -- not so much this issue of the 1980 convention -- the thing to think about is this: They go to church.	（鼓掌） 但我希望大家想一想当我们想到保守－ 不过多涉及到这个1980年大会上的问题－ 我们考虑以下这个问题： 他们去教堂。
Now, you know, I mean, a lot of people go to church.	你知道有很多人去教堂。
I'm not talking about that only conservatives go to church.	我不是说只有保守派才去教堂。
And I'm not talking about the God thing.	我也不是在谈神和信仰。
I don't want to get into that, you know; that's not my point.	我不想讨论那些，你们知道那不是我今天的重点。
They go to church, by which I mean, they do lots of things for free for each other.	他们去教堂，我指的是， 他们为其他人做了很多事，并且是免费的。
They hold potluck dinners.	他们准备免费晚餐
Indeed, they sell books about potluck dinners.	当然，他们会出售关于免费信徒晚餐的书籍
They serve food to poor people.	他们为穷人提供食物。
They share, they give, they give away for free.	他们分享。他们奉献， 他们无私奉献。
And it's the very same people leading Wall Street firms who, on Sundays, show up and share.	而且同样是这些人 领导着华尔街上的公司 到了礼拜天，去教会 去分享。
And not only food, right.	而且不仅是食物。
These very same people are strong believers, in lots of contexts, in the limits on the markets.	这些非常类似的人 有强烈的信仰，在许多的情境中， 在有限的市场下。
They are in many important places against markets.	他们无处不在 与市场背道而驰
Indeed, they, like all of us, celebrate this kind of relationship.	实际上他们和我们一样庆祝这种关系。
But they're very keen that we don't let money drop into that relationship, else it turns into something like this.	但是他们非常敏锐的杜绝我们 让金钱介入这种关系， 否则那将变成这样的东西。
They want to regulate us, those conservatives, to stop us from allowing the market to spread in those places.	他们想规范我们，那些保守派， 组织我们将市场化的东西扩展到那些地方。
Because they understand: There are places for the market and places where the market should not exist, where we should be free to enjoy the fellowship of others.	因为他们深知， 有哪里可以有市场 而另外一些地方不应该存在市场， 那儿我们应该保持免费 从而享受彼此间的和谐关系。
They recognize: Both of these things have to live together.	他们认识到，市场和非市场必需共存。
And the second great thing about conservatives: they get ecology.	而关于保守的第二伟大的事 他们关注生态
Right, it was the first great Republican president of the 20th century who taught us about environmental thinking -- Teddy Roosevelt.	是的，那是20世纪第一位伟大的共和党总统 他教会我们 用环境思维思考，他就是泰迪罗斯福。
They first taught us about ecology in the context of natural resources.	他们是第一个让我们了解生态学 在自然资源中的地位。
And then they began to teach us in the context of innovation, economics.	然后他们开始教我们在大背景中思考 新制度，新经济
They understand, in that context, "free." They understand "free" is an important essential part of the cultural ecology as well.	他们深刻理解 免费的重要性 同时也是文化生态 的重要组成
That's the thing I want you to think about them.	那是我想让大家思考的东西
Now, I know you don't believe me, really, here.	现在我知道 你们在这里，实际上不相信我。
So here's exhibit number one.	所以这儿给大家看第一个例子。
I want to share with you my latest hero, Julian Sanchez, a libertarian who works at the, for many people, "evil" Cato Institute.	我想和你们分享我的最新英雄，朱利安桑切斯， 一个自由工作者为大家而工作， "邪恶的"卡托研究所
Okay, so Julian made this video.	好，所以朱利安制作了这个短片
He's a terrible producer of videos, but it's great content, so I'm going to give you a little bit of it.	他是一个糟糕的视频制作人， 但是内容很棒，所以我给大家分享一点。
So here he is beginning.	这儿是开头。
Julian Sanchez: I'm going to make an observation about the way remix culture seems to be evolving ...	朱利安桑切斯：我将告诉大家一个发现 一个关于混合文化衍化的方式。
Larry Lessig: So what he does is he begins to tell us about these three videos.	拉里莱斯格：所以他在开始告诉我们 关于这三个视频。
This is this fantastic Brat Pack remix set to Lisztomania.	这是一个很棒的混音作品 定为李斯特狂
Which, of course, spread virally.	当然传播的很快
Hugely successful.	取得巨大的成功
And then some people from Brooklyn saw it.	然后一些来自布鲁克林的人看到了它。
They decided they wanted to do the same.	他们决定做一个相同的作品
And then, of course, people from San Fransisco saw it.	在然后，当然，是来自旧金山的人们看到了它。
And San Franciscans thought they had to do the same as well.	然后旧金山人想着他们必须也做一个同样好的作品。
And so they're beautiful, but this libertarian has some important lessons he wants us to learn from this.	他们做得相当漂亮，但是这种自由主义 有很多重要的教训值得我们吸取。
Here's lesson number one.	第一条。
JS: There's obviously also something really deeply great about this.	朱利安：显而易见这其中有着深刻而伟大的东西。
They are acting in the sense that they're emulating the original mashup.	他们即兴表演 模仿原来的混音
And the guy who shot it obviously has a strong eye and some experience with video editing.	而且拍摄这作品的家伙很有眼光 并有不少视频编辑的经验
But this is also basically just a group of friends having an authentic social moment and screwing around together.	但基本上这个作品也只是由一群好朋友 相互有着真实的社交活动 并聚在一起。
It should feel familiar and kind of resonate for anyone who's had a sing-a-long or a dance party with a group of good friends.	这似乎听起来熟悉并且合理 对于那些参加长时间歌唱和舞蹈派对的人们 有着这样一群好友
LL: Or ...	拉里：或者
JS: So that's importantly different from the earlier videos we looked at because here, remix isn't just about an individual doing something alone in his basement; it becomes an act of social creativity.	朱利安：所以与我们看到的早期的视频有很大区别 因为在这里，混合的不仅仅是 一个独立的基本事物； 它成为了一种社会创造力的体现。
And it's not just that it yields a different kind of product at the end, it's that potentially it changes the way that we relate to each other.	并且他不局限在自身 最终诞生一种新的产品， 它具有改变我们相互依赖方式的潜力。
All of our normal social interactions become a kind of invitation to this sort of collective expression.	我们所有的社会互动 成为了一种邀请 对于这种集体表达。
It's our real social lives themselves that are transmuted into art.	这使我们真实社会活了起来 这就转变成了艺术。
LL: And so then, what this libertarian draws from these two points ...	拉里：所以这为自由主义者提出这两点
JS: One remix is about individuals using our shared culture as a kind of language to communicate something to an audience.	朱利安：一种混搭是关于 独立地使用我们共享的文化 好比一种与听众沟通的语言。
Stage two, social remix, is really about using it to mediate people's relationships to each other.	第二阶段，社会混搭， 这才是真正吧它当成一种媒介 连接人与人之间的关系。
First, within each video, the Brat Pack characters are used as a kind of template for performing the social reality of each group.	首先，在这视频中， 后起之秀的角色被当作一种样本 用来表现每个团体的社会现实
But there's also a dialogue between the videos, where, once the basic structure is established, it becomes a kind of platform for articulating the similarities and differences between the groups' social and physical worlds.	但是这些视频之间也存在对话， 一旦基本结构建立起来后， 它就成为了一种平台 做为表述相似与区别的平台 在不同的社团和物理世界中存在。
LL: And then, here's for me, the critical key to what Julian has to say ...	拉里：然后，对我而言， 这个评论的要点是 朱利安必须说。
JS: Copyright policy isn't just about how to incentivize the production of a certain kind of artistic commodity; it's about what level of control we're going to permit to be exercised over our social realities -- social realities that are now inevitably permeated by pop culture.	朱利安：版权政策不仅仅关于 如何奖励作品的作者 那些特定种类的艺术家团体 它还关系到能控制哪一层面 我们可以允许它们被用来 控制我们的社会现实， 社会现实在现在必然地， 被流行文化渗透。
I think it's important that we keep these two different kinds of public goods in mind.	我认为这很重要 我们在心中保留两种不同的公共物品
If we're only focused on how to maximize the supply of one, I think we risk suppressing this different and richer and, in some ways, maybe even more important one.	如果我们只是将目光放在 供应如何最大化 我认为我们应冒险放弃这一点 区分并且丰富 一些在其他层面看来更重要的东西。
LL: Right. Bingo. Point.	拉里：对，正是这点。
Freedom needs this opportunity to both have the commercial success of the great commercial works and the opportunity to build this different kind of culture.	自由需要这个机会 获取商业成功 作为商业作品 并且建立不同 种类文化的机会
And for that to happen, you need ideas like fair use to be central and protected, to enable this kind of innovation, as this libertarian tells us, between these two creative cultures, a commercial and a sharing culture.	为了这个目标，你需要 很多点子用来保护公平使用 使得这种启发可能 正如自由主义者告诉我们的， 在这两种创造性的文化之间， 有着一个商业的和另一个可分享的文化
The point is they, he, here, gets that culture.	重点是他们，他，这里， 获得那种文化。
Now, my concern is, we Dems, too often, not so much.	现在，我担心的是，我们民主党人， 常常，不是那么多。
All right, take for example this great company.	好，以这个大公司为例子。
In the good old days when this Republican ran that company, their greatest work was work that built on the past, right.	在美好的过去，共和党人曾经经营这个公司， 他们的出色工作建立了过去的辉煌。
All of the great Disney works were works that took works that were in the public domain and remixed them, or waited until they entered the public domain to remix them, to celebrate this add-on remix creativity.	所有杰出的迪斯尼作品 都是来源于其他作品 那些作品属于公共领域的并且被重新解构 或者等到他们进入了公有领域再重构他们， 庆祝这个附加的创意
Indeed, Mickey Mouse himself, of course, as "Steamboat Willie," is a remix of the then, very dominant, very popular "Steamboat Bill" by Buster Keaton.	事实上，米老鼠自身出现在 "汽船威利号"的形象 就是借鉴当时非常流行的 "汽船比利号" 由巴斯特·基顿创作
This man was a remixer extraordinaire.	他才是一位杰出的再创作大师
He is the celebration and ideal of exactly this kind of creativity.	他值得称颂 拥有这种创造力
But then the company passes through this dark stage to this Democrat.	但是公司把历史掩盖了 通过政治黑幕背后的交易 给这位民主党人
Wildly different.	截然不同的待遇
This is the mastermind behind the eventual passage of what we call the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act, extending the term of existing copyrights by 20 years, so that no one could do to Disney what Disney did to the Brothers Grimm.	幕后的罪魁祸首 正是臭名昭著的 松尼波诺著作权期延长法案 将现有的版权年限 延长了20年 所以没有人可以对迪斯尼做 他们曾对格林兄弟所做的事
Now, when we tried to challenge this, going to the Supreme Court, getting the Supreme Court, the bunch of conservatives there -- if we could get them to wake up to this -- to strike it down, we had the assistance of Nobel Prize winners including this right-wing Nobel Prize winner, Milton Friedman, who said he would join our brief only if the word "no brainer" was in the brief somewhere.	现在当我们试图挑战这点时 都要去最高法院接受那儿一群保守派的审判 如果我们让他们醒悟过来看到这一点然后推翻它。 我们有诺贝尔得主的帮助 包括这位右翼人士 诺贝尔奖得主，米尔顿弗里德曼 曾说过他将加入我们部门 只要"脑残"这个词 能贴在办公室的某个地方。
But apparently, no brains existed in this place when Democrats passed and signed this bill into law.	(笑声） 但很明显，没有脑残 曾经在这里存在过 当民主党通过并签署法案 将它正式变为法律
Now, tiny little quibble of a footnote: Sonny Bono, you might say, was a Republican, but I don't buy it.	现在，我进行一个注解， 松尼波诺，也许你会说，他曾是共和党人， 但是我不买账。
This guy is no Republican.	这家伙绝不是共和党。
Okay, for a second example, think about this cultural hero, icon on the Left, creator of this character.	好的，举第二个例子， 想一想这个文化英雄， 左派人物， 这个角色的创造者。
Look at the site that he built: "Star Wars" MashUps, inviting people to come and use their creative energy to produce a new generation of attention towards this extraordinarily important cultural icon.	看看他建立的网站："星球大战"恶搞， 邀请人们来这里使用他们的创作激情 去吸引新一代的注意力 对于这个杰出的重要文化象征。
Read the license.	读一下许可证。
The license for these remixers assigns all of the rights to the remix back to Lucas.	对于这些再创作者的许可 赋予了所有权利 混搭作品版权属于卢卡斯
The mashup is owned by Lucas.	这些混搭是卢卡斯所有的。
Indeed, anything you add to the mashup, music you might add, Lucas has a worldwide perpetual right to exploit that for free.	实际上，你添加的任何元素， 也许是一段音乐， 卢卡斯有了一个全世界范围的版权 免费的去开拓。
There is no creator here to be recognized.	在这里没有公认的创作者。
The creator doesn't have any rights.	创作者没有任何权力。
The creator is a sharecropper in this story.	在故事里，创作者成了农民工。
And we should remember who employed the sharecroppers: the Democrats, right?	我们应该记住 谁雇佣了这些佃农? 民主党，不是吗？
So the point is the Republicans here recognize that there's a certain need of ownership, a respect for ownership, the respect we should give the creator, the remixer, the owner, the property owner, the copyright owner of this extraordinarily powerful stuff, and not a generation of sharecroppers.	所以要点是共和党在这 认识到有这样的需求 需要所有权 尊重所有权， 我们应该给予创作者的， 再创作者，拥有者，财产所有者， 版权所有者 这个非常棒的玩意 而不是一代佃农。
Now, I think there are lessons we should learn here, lessons about openness.	现在 关于开放的教训。
Our lives are sharing activities, at least in part.	我们的生命是分享的活动， 至少部分是。
Even for the head of Goldman Sachs, at least in part.	即使是高盛公司的老板， 也有分享的部分。
And for that sharing activity to happen, we have to have well-protected spaces of fair use.	为了使得这样的分享可以实现，我们必须 保护好公平使用的空间。
That's number one. Number two: This ecology of sharing needs freedom within which to create.	这是第一点。第二点： 分享的生态环境 需要自由 在自由中创作。
Freedom, which means without permission from anyone, the ability to create.	自由意味着没有任何人的允许， 有创作的能力。
And number three: We need to respect the creator, the creator of these remixes through rights that are directly tied to them.	第三点：我们需要 尊重创作者， 这些混搭作品的作者 通过将权力 与他们直接相连。
Now, this explains the right-wing nonprofit Creative Commons.	这也可以解释为何右翼会热衷于非盈利 的创意共享
Actually, it's not a right-wing nonprofit, but of course -- let me just tie it here -- the Creative Commons, which is offering authors this simple way to mark their content with the freedoms they intended to carry.	实际上，这不只是一个右翼非盈利活动 让我把它联系到 创意共享 即让作者有了这个简单的方法标注他们的内容 在自由的条件下 只要他们想加上。
So that we go from a "all rights reserved" world to a "some rights reserved" world so that people can know the freedoms they have attached to the content, building and creating on the basis of this creative copyrighted work.	所以我们从一个"版权所有"的世界 变为"版权部分所有"的世界 所以大家可以知道他们赋予作品内容的这种自由， 建立和创作 基于这种自由 创新已有版权的作品。
These tools that we built enable this sharing in parts through licenses that make it clear and a freedom to create without requiring permission first because the permission has already been granted and a respect for the creator because it builds upon a copyright the creator has licensed freely.	这些我们发明的工具 使得分享成为了一部分 通过许可明确了 自由创作的权力 在没有事先允许的情况下 因为一开始就给予了许可， 以及对原创者的尊重因为它建立在 原创者的版权之上 已经被允许自由使用。
And it explains the vast right-wing conspiracy that's obviously developed around these licenses, as now more than 350 million digital objects are out there, licensed freely in this way.	这揭示了泛右翼论阴谋 很明显围绕这些协议不断发展， 至今已有3亿5000万数字作品 存在并允许自由使用 以这样的方式。
Now that picture of an ecology of creativity, the picture of an ecology of balanced creativity, is that the ecology of creativity we have right now?	现在那是一幅创造性生态图， 一幅生态平衡的 由创作环境， 这样的创作生态我们现在拥有了么？
Well, as you all know, not many of us believe we do.	正如大家知道的， 没有几个人相信我们有。
I tripped on the reality of this ecology of creativity just last week.	我就在现实的创作环境中栽了个跟头 就在上周。
I created a video which was based on a Wireside Chat that I'd given, and I uploaded it to YouTube.	我制作了一个视频是基于 我的一个演讲 我把它上传到了Youtube
I then got this email from YouTube weirdly notifying me that there was content in that owned by the mysterious WMG that matched their content ID.	然后我就收到了Youtube发来的电邮 莫名其妙的告知我 这些内容 不可思议的属于WMG公司 因为符合他们作品的特征
So I didn't think much about it.	我并没怎么当回事
And then on Twitter, somebody said to me, "Your talk on YouTube was DMCA'd. Was that your purpose?"	接下来在推特上，有个人和我说， 你在Youube上的谈话被判侵权。你是故意的吗？
imagining that I had this deep conspiracy to reveal the obvious flaws in the DMCA.	想象一下如果我有这样险恶的阴谋 去揭露新千年数字版权法案显而易见的瑕疵。
I answered, "No." I didn't even think about it.	我答道："不。"我根本没有想到那样做。
But then I went to the site and all of the audio in my site had been silenced.	但随后我上了那个网站 我所有的语音被静音了。
My whole 45-minute video had been silenced because there were snippets in that video, a video about fair use, that included Warner Music Group music.	我全长45分钟的视频 全部没有声音 因为这里面有一点点内容， 关于公平使用视频， 包含了华纳音乐集团的音乐。
Now, interestingly, they still sold ads for that music, if you played the silent video.	现在，有趣的是， 他们依然为那段音乐卖广告， 如果你播放了那段静音的视频。
You could still buy the music, but you couldn't hear anything because it had been silenced.	你仍然可以购买那段音乐， 但你听不到任何声音 因为被静音了。
So I did what the current regime says I must do to be free to use YouTube to talk about fair use.	所以我做了目前政府 让我必须做的 去自由使用 YouTube谈论公平使用。
I went to this site, and I had to answer these questions.	我打开那个页面，我必须回答这些问题。
And then in an extraordinarily Bart Simpson-like, juvenile way you've actually got to type out these words and get them right to reassert your freedom to speak.	然后在一个令人叫绝的的 像巴特·辛普森一样，幼稚的方式 你必须输入这些单词 并得到允许 去宣称你的言论自由
And I felt like I was in third grade again.	我感到我回到了小学三年级，
"I will not put tacks on the teacher's chair.	我保证我不会把大头钉再放到老师椅子上。
I will not put tacks on the teacher's chair."	我保证我不会把大头钉再放到老师椅子上。
This is absurd.	这很荒唐。
It is outrageous.	太离奇了。
It is an extraordinary perversion of the system of freedom we should be encouraging.	这是对自由系统的扭曲 我们应该倍受鼓舞
And the question I ask you is: Who's fighting it?	我想问的是："谁在为此而奋斗？"
Well, interestingly, in the last presidential election, who was the number one, active opponent of this system of regulation in online speech?	是的，有趣的是，在上次总统大选中， 谁是头号积极分子 在反对这个行政系统 对在线发言的限制？
John McCain.	是约翰麦凯恩。
Letter after letter attacking YouTube's refusal to be more respectful of fair use with their extraordinary notice and take down system, that led his campaign so many times to be thrown off the Internet.	一份有一份批评Youube的封锁 倡导更值得尊敬的公平使用 凭借他们杰出的注意力并终止这个系统， 让他的竞选活动无数次的 被因特网抛弃。
Now, that was the story of me then, my good old days of right-wing lunacy.	现在，讲讲我自己的故事， 我美好的的右派疯狂岁月。
Let me come back to now, now when I'm a little leftist -- I'm certainly left-handed, so at least a lefty -- And I wonder, can we on the Left expect to build this ecology of freedom, now, in a world where we know the extraordinarily powerful influences against it, where even icons of the Left like this entertain and push bills that would effectively ban the requirement of open access for government-funded research?	让我回到当下， 现在当我作为一个小小的左倾分子 至少我是一个左撇子 我想知道，我们能否站在左翼 期望去建立一个 自由的生态系统，就现在， 在世界的某个地点 我们知道有股强大的力量 会反对它， 甚至像这位左派的领袖 致力推进法案 有效地禁止那些要求 开放给政府资助地科研？
The president, who has supported a process that secretly negotiates agreements, which effectively lock us into the insane system of DMCA that we have adopted and likely lock us down a path of three strikes, you're out that, of course, the rest of the world are increasingly adopting.	总统本人，曾支持过 一个秘密协商的进行， 结果把我们困在了一个愚蠢的系统里 即数字千年版权法 我们已被迫适应 并被置于棒球中三震出局的境地 当然越来越多的国家也卷入了这个适应的过程。
Not a single example of reform has been produced yet.	没有一例改革的例子 被推动过。
And we're not going to see this change in this system anytime soon.	并且我们将看不到任何改变 在这个系统里 至少近期无望。
So here's the lessons of openness that I think we need to learn.	所以这是关于开放的教训 我认为大家都要吸取
Openness is a commitment to a certain set of values.	开放式一种奉献 奉献一系列的价值。
We need to speak of those values.	我们需要强调那些价值。
The value of freedom. It's a value of community.	自由的价值。它具有公共团体的价值。
It's a value of the limits in regulation.	它具有制约规章的价值。
It's a value respecting the creator.	它具有尊重创造者的价值。
Now, if we can learn those values from at least some influences on the Right, if we can take them and incorporate them, maybe we could do a little trade.	现在，假如我们可以学到这些价值 从右翼那里获得哪怕一点点影响， 假如我们可以争取并加入他们， 也许我们可以做一点交易。
We learn those values on the Left, and maybe they'll do health care or global warming legislation or something in the Right.	我们从左派学到这些价值， 也许他们将对医疗进行改革 或者对全球变暖进行立法等等。
Anyway, please join me in teaching these values.	无论如何，请和我一起 传播这些价值观。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
	（鼓掌）
A few years ago, my eyes were opened to the dark side of the construction industry.	几年前，我初次目睹了 房产建筑工业的阴暗面
In 2006, young Qatari students took me to go and see the migrant worker camps.	2006年，几个年轻的卡塔尔学生 带我去探访了移民工人的住所
And since then I've followed the unfolding issue of worker rights.	自从那时起，我就开始密切关注建筑工人的权益的相关问题
In the last six months, more than 300 skyscrapers in the UAE have been put on hold or canceled.	在过去的6个月中，阿联酋多达300座在建的摩天大厦 被迫暂停建造或取消
Behind the headlines that lay behind these buildings is the fate of the often-indentured construction worker.	在关于这些楼宇的头条新闻的背后， 是一个个往往被遗忘的建筑工人的命运
1.1 million of them.	足足有110万之多
Mainly Indian, Pakistani, Sri Lankan and Nepalese, these laborers risk everything to make money for their families back home.	主要来自于印度，巴基斯坦，斯里兰卡， 的这些工人们，常常承担着失去一切的风险 在挣钱养活他们远在故乡的家人们
They pay a middle-man thousands of dollars to be there.	他们得付给约合几千美元的中介费才能到那里工作
And when they arrive, they find themselves in labor camps with no water, no air conditioning, and their passports taken away.	然而当他们到达目的地的，却发现自己身处劳工营，没有饮水， 没有空调，然后自己的护照又被扣走
While it's easy to point the finger at local officials and higher authorities, 99 percent of these people are hired by the private sector, and so therefore we're equally, if not more, accountable.	我们不难就这些情况指责那些当地官员和权力机关 可百分之九十九的劳工都是被私有产业所雇佣的 因此我们自己也同样负有责任。
Groups like Buildsafe UAE have emerged, but the numbers are simply overwhelming.	一些例如阿联酋安建的团体开始纷纷出现 但是问题的数量确实惊人
In August 2008, UAE public officials noted that 40 percent of the country's 1,098 labor camps had violated minimum health and fire safety regulations.	2008年8月的时候 阿联酋的官方表明 全国1098个劳工营中，百分之四十 都违反了最低健康及火灾安全标准
And last summer, more than 10,000 workers protested for the non-payment of wages, for the poor quality of food, and inadequate housing.	去年夏天，超过一万名劳工 一同抗议工资的拖欠 糟糕的食物和短缺的住房。
And then the financial collapse happened.	继而随着金融世界的崩盘，
When the contractors have gone bust, as they've been overleveraged like everyone else, the difference is everything goes missing, documentation, passports, and tickets home for these workers.	包工头也纷纷的破产了 这些工人像所有人一样，被过度的压榨 但区别在于他们失去了一切 文件，护照 归程的车票
Currently, right now, thousands of workers are abandoned.	现在呢，这一刻，数以千计的劳工们被无情的抛弃
There is no way back home.	没有办法回家
And there is no way, and no proof of arrival.	此外还没有办法证明他们当初合法入境
These are the boom-and-bust refugees.	这些就是那兴衰背后的难民
The question is, as a building professional, as an architect, an engineer, as a developer, if you know this is going on, as we go to the sights every single week, are you complacent or complicit in the human rights violations?	我们所要提出的问题是：作为房建的专业人士， 无论你是建筑师，工程师，或是开发商 如果你知道这些状况的发生 就像我们每周去工地查看时一样， 你会自满自足，并间接地 去违背人权吗？
So let's forget your environmental footprint.	那么让我们暂时忘却你的环境足迹
Let's think about your ethical footprint.	转而关注你的道义足迹
What good is it to build a zero-carbon, energy efficient complex, when the labor producing this architectural gem is unethical at best?	建造一个零炭平衡，能耗率高的建筑结构的同时 创造这个奇迹的的劳动力， 却受到极为不符道义的对待， 又有什么实在意义呢
Now, recently I've been told I've been taking the high road.	最近有人说我选择了崇高的方式
But, quite frankly, on this issue, there is no other road.	但是坦白的讲，在这个问题上 实在是没有其他的方式了
So let's not forget who is really paying the price of this financial collapse.	所以让我们不要忘记是那一群体在为这次金融世界的坍塌来埋单
And that as we worry about our next job in the office, the next design that we can get, to keep our workers.	当我们还在担心自己的下一份工作何去何从的时候 我们如何选择挽留自己劳工的最佳途径
Let's not forget these men, who are truly dying to work.	也让我们不要忘记这些拼了性命在工作的人们
Thank you.	谢谢大家
	掌声
Let me tell you a story.	我来给大家讲个故事。
It's my first year as a new high school science teacher, and I'm so eager.	我成为高中理科老师的第一年， 我非常的积极。
I'm so excited, I'm pouring myself into my lesson plans.	非常的兴奋，我全身心的投入到我的教学工作中。
But I'm slowly coming to this horrifying realization that my students just might not be learning anything.	但是我慢慢的认识到一个可怕的现实 我的学生可能什么都学不到。
This happens one day: I'd just assigned my class to read this textbook chapter about my favorite subject in all of biology: viruses and how they attack.	有一天， 我安排学生们阅读课本的一个章节， 这个章节讲的是我在生物学中最喜欢的主题—— 病毒以及其攻击原理。
And so I'm so excited to discuss this with them, and I come in and I say, "Can somebody please explain the main ideas and why this is so cool?"	我很兴奋能够跟他们讨论这个内容 我走进课堂，问："有没有人能阐述一下本章主要内容， 并解释病毒为什么这么酷？
There's silence.	现场一片寂静。
Finally, my favorite student, she looks me straight in the eye, and she says, "The reading sucked."	终于，我最中意的学生，她看着我的眼睛， 说道，教材太恶心了
And then she clarified. She said, "You know what, I don't mean that it sucks. It means that I didn't understand a word of it.	然后她澄清道："我的意思是 我不是说内容恶心，我是说我根本看不懂。
It's boring. Um, who cares, and it sucks."	太无聊了。嗯，管他呢，就是恶心。
These sympathetic smiles spread all throughout the room now, and I realize that all of my other students are in the same boat, that maybe they took notes or they memorized definitions from the textbook, but not one of them really understood the main ideas.	教室里一下子 充满了赞同的笑声。 我意识到班上所有的学生都是一样的感觉。 他们或许做了笔记，死记硬背了教材中的定义， 但没有一个人真正理解了其中意义。
Not one of them can tell me why this stuff is so cool, why it's so important.	没有一个人能告诉我为什么这东西有意思， 为什么它很重要。
I'm totally clueless.	我完全迷茫了。
I have no idea what to do next.	我不知道接下去要做什么。
So the only thing I can think of is say, "Listen. Let me tell you a story.	我想到唯一可以做的是说， "听着，我来给大家讲个故事。
The main characters in the story are bacteria and viruses.	故事的主角是细菌和病毒。
These guys are blown up a couple million times.	现在我手上的这俩家伙是放大了几百万倍的样子，
The real bacteria and viruses are so small we can't see them without a microscope, and you guys might know bacteria and viruses because they both make us sick.	真正的病毒和细菌太小了， 小到我们只能用显微镜才能看到。 你们可能对细菌和病毒并不陌生， 因为它们会让我们生病。
But what a lot of people don't know is that viruses can also make bacteria sick."	但很多人都不知道的是，病毒 也可以让细菌生病。"
Now, the story that I start telling my kids, it starts out like a horror story.	而后，我开始给学生们讲故事。 故事的开头有点恐怖。
Once upon a time there's this happy little bacterium.	很久很久以前，有一个快乐的小细菌。
Don't get too attached to him.	别太投入了。
Maybe he's floating around in your stomach or in some spoiled food somewhere, and all of a sudden he starts to not feel so good.	他可能正在你的胃里， 或是在一些变质的食物里游荡。 突然之间，他开始感觉不大对劲了。
Maybe he ate something bad for lunch, and then things get really horrible, as his skin rips apart, and he sees a virus coming out from his insides.	可能他午饭吃坏肚子了， 然后事情变得非常的可怕 它的皮肤裂开了，它看到一个病毒 从他体内钻了出来。
And then it gets horrible when he bursts open and an army of viruses floods out from his insides.	更恐怖的事情是 它的身体爆炸了，成群的病毒 从细菌的体内喷涌了出来。
If -- Ouch is right! -- If you see this, and you're a bacterium, this is like your worst nightmare.	如果——哦，是的—— 如果你是一个细菌而你目睹了这一幕， 这将是你最可怕的噩梦。
But if you're a virus and you see this, you cross those little legs of yours and you think, "We rock."	但如果你是一只病毒，此情此景， 你可能就会悠闲地跷着二郎腿心想， "我们太牛了。"
Because it took a lot of crafty work to infect this bacterium.	因为病毒需要通过很巧妙的方式来感染细菌。
Here's what had to happen.	以下是具体过程：
A virus grabbed onto a bacterium and it slipped its DNA into it.	一个病毒抓住一个细菌， 悄悄把自己的DNA注入细菌。
The next thing is, that virus DNA made stuff that chopped up the bacteria DNA.	接下来，病毒的DNA生成了一些物质 破坏了细菌原有的DNA。
And now that we've gotten rid of the bacteria DNA, the virus DNA takes control of the cell and it tells it to start making more viruses.	现在细菌的DNA已经被破坏了， 病毒的DNA控制了整个细胞。 然后病毒DNA开始复制更多的病毒。
Because, you see, DNA is like a blueprint that tells living things what to make.	因为，你看，DNA像是一个制造图纸 指示生命体制造指定的物质。
So this is kind of like going into a car factory and replacing the blueprints with blueprints for killer robots.	这就像原本是一个造车工厂 图纸被替换了，开始造杀人机器人了。
The workers still come the next day, they do their job, but they're following different instructions.	工人们第二天照旧来上班开工， 但他们执行的却是完全不同的指示。
So replacing the bacteria DNA with virus DNA turns the bacteria into a factory for making viruses -- that is, until it's so filled with viruses that it bursts.	那么，将细菌的DNA更换为病毒的DNA 就使得细菌自身成为了一间制造病毒的工厂， 直到生产的病毒多到把细菌撑爆了为止。
But that's not the only way that viruses infect bacteria.	但这并非是病毒感染细菌的唯一途径。
Some are much more crafty.	有些方法更加精妙。
When a secret agent virus infects a bacterium, they do a little espionage.	当一个病毒"特工"感染一个细菌， 间谍活动随之展开。
Here, this cloaked, secret agent virus is slipping his DNA into the bacterial cell, but here's the kicker: It doesn't do anything harmful -- not at first.	这名潜行的特工不动声色地将其DNA送入细菌细胞， 但秘诀在于：它不会伤害细菌——至少现在不会。
Instead, it silently slips into the bacteria's own DNA, and it just stays there like a terrorist sleeper cell, waiting for instructions.	相反，它默默潜伏于细菌自身的DNA中， 犹如一枚定时炸弹， 静静地等待指令。
And what's interesting about this is now whenever this bacteria has babies, the babies also have the virus DNA in them.	有趣的是，接下来当细菌开始繁殖，有了自己的孩子时， 它的孩子也带有病毒的这段DNA。
So now we have a whole extended bacteria family, filled with virus sleeper cells.	于是当细菌繁衍成为一个大家族， 每一个家族成员都带有病毒的定时炸弹。
They're just happily living together until a signal happens and -- BAM! -- all of the DNA pops out.	他们幸福地生活在一起，直到信号出现。 于是，"砰！"地一声，所有的潜伏DNA被唤醒了。
It takes control of these cells, turns them into virus-making factories, and they all burst, a huge, extended bacteria family, all dying with viruses spilling out of their guts, the viruses taking over the bacterium.	病毒DNA控制了这些细胞，将其变为制造病毒的工厂， 并让它们全部涨裂。 于是，熙熙攘攘的细菌大家族， 就这样被病毒由内而外全部消灭。 病毒完全接管了细菌体。
So now you understand how viruses can attack cells.	于是现在大家能理解病毒是如何攻击细胞的了。
There are two ways: On the left is what we call the lytic way, where the viruses go right in and take over the cells.	总共有两种途径：左边的我们称其为裂解性感染， 病毒一旦进入即掌控整个细胞。
On the [right] is the lysogenic way that uses secret agent viruses.	右边的我们称其为溶源性感染， 就是病毒特工闪亮登场的情境。
So this stuff is not that hard, right?	所以这些东西也不是那么难嘛，对吧？
And now all of you understand it.	现在大家都能够理解。
But if you've graduated from high school, I can almost guarantee you've seen this information before.	只要你高中毕了业， 我敢保证几乎每个人都看到过以上的东西。
But I bet it was presented in a way that it didn't exactly stick in your mind.	只是这些知识是以其他的形式呈现的， 并没有给你留下什么印象。
So when my students were first learning this, why did they hate it so much?	那么当我的学生们初次学习这些东西的时候， 为什么他们会这么痛恨这些？
Well, there were a couple of reasons.	当然，有若干原因：
First of all, I can guarantee you that their textbooks didn't have secret agent viruses, and they didn't have horror stories.	其一，我可以保证他们的课本 可没有什么"病毒特工"或是恐怖小故事。
You know, in the communication of science there is this obsession with seriousness.	在科学界的交流中 通常有着对内容严肃性的执念。
It kills me. I'm not kidding.	我被"严谨"二字折磨死了，真的。
I used to work for an educational publisher, and as a writer, I was always told never to use stories or fun, engaging language, because then my work might not be viewed as "serious" and "scientific."	我曾在一家教育出版社供职， 作为一名撰稿人，我被告知永远不要用故事体 逗趣笑话或引人眼球的语言风格， 因为如果我用了的话，我的作品就不会被视为是 "严肃的"和"科学的"。
Right? I mean, because God forbid somebody have fun when they're learning science.	对吧？就好像上帝禁止学科学的人 找乐子一样。
So we have this field of science that's all about slime, and color changes. Check this out.	所以我们的科学领域中充满了黏液 颜色变化等。注意看这个。
And then we have, of course, as any good scientist has to have, explosions!	然后，当然，我们有优秀科学家必备的 爆炸！
But if a textbook seems too much fun, it's somehow unscientific.	但是如果教材太有意思了， 似乎就不科学了。
Now another problem was that the language in their textbook was truly incomprehensible.	另一个问题在于， 教材中使用的语言真的是无法理解。
If we want to summarize that story that I told you earlier, we could start by saying something like, "These viruses make copies of themselves by slipping their DNA into a bacterium."	如果我们要总结我们之前讲的故事， 我们可以这么说： "病毒通过把自己的DNA送入细菌体内 来复制自己。"
The way this showed up in the textbook, it looked like this: "Bacteriophage replication is initiated through the introduction of viral nucleic acid into a bacterium."	但如果要是写在课本里的语言，就会变成这样： "噬菌体病毒之复制 以病毒核酸向细菌体 之引入而开始。"
That's great, perfect for 13-year-olds.	这个很好，对13岁小孩来说很合适。
But here's the thing. There are plenty of people in science education who would look at this and say there's no way that we could ever give that to students, because it contains some language that isn't completely accurate.	但是问题来了。在科学教育领域的 很多人会在看了这段话之后，说他们 不能这么教育学生， 因为这段话中的措辞并不完全准确。
For example, I told you that viruses have DNA.	比如，我之前告诉大家病毒有DNA。
Well, a very tiny fraction of them don't.	好吧，很小一部分病毒是没有DNA，
They have something called RNA instead.	相对应地，他们体内有另一种称为RNA的物质。
So a professional science writer would circle that and say, "That has to go.	于是所谓专业的科学作者估计会把这处圈出来，说， "这不行
We have to change it to something much more technical."	得换成更严谨科学的表述。"
And after a team of professional science editors went over this really simple explanation, they'd find fault with almost every word I've used, and they'd have to change anything that wasn't serious enough, and they'd have to change everything that wasn't 100 percent perfect.	然后经过专业科学编辑团队 审阅了这段简单的解释之后 他们可能会发现我说的每句话都有毛病 而他们必须要改掉所有不严谨的地方 他们不得不改掉所有不是 百分百精确的事情
Then it would be accurate, but it would be completely impossible to understand.	现在或许是精确了 但是已经完全无法让人理解了
This is horrifying.	这太吓人了
You know, I keep talking about this idea of telling a story, and it's like science communication has taken on this idea of what I call the tyranny of precision, where you can't just tell a story.	我一直在说通过讲故事进行教学 的想法 但是现在的科学课程教学是基于我称之为 精确性至上的教学法 这套方法不讲故事。
It's like science has become that horrible storyteller that we all know, who gives us all the details nobody cares about, where you're like, "Oh, I met my friend for lunch the other day, and she was wearing these ugly jeans.	感觉讲故事的人很可怕，会把科学课程变成 传授我们尽人皆知的细碎知识， 就像是"哦，一天我跟朋友吃饭， 她穿的牛仔裤不好看。
I mean, they weren't really jeans, they were more kind of, like, leggings, but, like, I guess they're actually kind of more like jeggings, like, but I think — " and you're just like, "Oh my God.	我是说，他们不是真的牛仔裤，而是窄腿裤 但是，我想他们某种意义上更像是紧身裤 但是我想——你会类似反应"天哪，
What is the point?"	到底想说什么？"
Or even worse, science education is becoming like that guy who always says, "Actually."	或者更糟，科学教育变成了 一个总是说"实际上"的人。
Right? You want to be like, "Oh, dude, we had to get up in the middle of the night and drive a hundred miles in total darkness."	不是么？想象一下，"哦，伙计， 我们要在午夜起床然后 在黑夜中开车走100公里。"
And that guy's like, "Actually, it was 87.3 miles."	然后一个人说，"实际上，是87.3公里哦"
And you're like, "Actually, shut up!	然后你说，"实际上，闭嘴！"
I'm just trying to tell a story."	"我只是想说一个故事。"
Because good storytelling is all about emotional connection.	好的故事需要关注的是情感的联系。
We have to convince our audience that what we're talking about matters.	我们需要说服我们的听众 我们说的话很重要。
But just as important is knowing which details we should leave out so that the main point still comes across.	而重要的是知道 忽略掉无关紧要的细节 重点才会得到突出。
I'm reminded of what the architect Mies van der Rohe said, and I paraphrase, when he said that sometimes you have to lie in order to tell the truth.	我记得建筑大师密斯·凡德罗说过， 我解释一下，当他说有时候 你必须通过谎言来传达真相
I think this sentiment is particularly relevant to science education.	我想这跟科学教育 有相通之处。
Now, finally, I am often so disappointed when people think that I'm advocating a dumbing down of science.	现在，最后， 我时常感到失望 人们会认为我是在鼓吹 科学的弱智化.
That's not true at all.	根本不是这样的。
I'm currently a Ph.D. student at MIT, and I absolutely understand the importance of detailed, specific scientific communication between experts, but not when we're trying to teach 13-year-olds.	我现在是MIT的在读博士， 我完全理解细节的重要性 专家之间交流时细节尤其重要 但是在教13岁孩子的时候不是那么重要的
If a young learner thinks that all viruses have DNA, that's not going to ruin their chances of success in science.	如果一个孩子觉得病毒都是有DNA的 不大可能因此毁掉了他们成为科学家的机会。
But if a young learner can't understand anything in science and learns to hate it because it all sounds like this, that will ruin their chances of success.	但是如果一个孩子无法理解科学课程中的知识 并由于这些枯燥的东西而讨厌这门课程 这真的可能会毁掉他们成功的机会。
This needs to stop, and I wish that the change could come from the institutions at the top that are perpetuating these problems, and I beg them, I beseech them to just stop it.	这需要改变。 我希望这些改变来自于高层的机构 让他们能够意识到问题的存在 我祈求他们，祈求他们别再这么教学了。
But I think that's unlikely.	但是我觉得不太现实。
So we are so lucky that we have resources like the Internet, where we can circumvent these institutions from the bottom up.	还好我们很幸运的拥有互联网这样的资源 我们可以撇开这些管理机构，自底向上的 进行改变。
There's a growing number of online resources that are dedicated to just explaining science in simple, understandable ways.	网上相关的教程越来越多 他们都尝试用简单和直白的语言 来解释科学原理
I dream of a Wikipedia-like website that would explain any scientific concept you can think of in simple language any middle schooler can understand.	我希望有一个维基百科一样的网站 解释你能想到的任何科学概念 用一种任何一个中学生都能够理解的语言和方式。
And I myself spend most of my free time making these science videos that I put on YouTube.	而我自己把我的闲暇时间都投入到了 制作这些YouTube在线课程的事情上。
I explain chemical equilibrium using analogies to awkward middle school dances, and I talk about fuel cells with stories about boys and girls at a summer camp.	我用中学舞蹈的古怪动作来类比 化学等价原理。 我用夏令营中男孩和女孩的故事来 解释燃料电池原理
The feedback that I get is sometimes misspelled and it's often written in LOLcats, but nonetheless it's so appreciative, so thankful that I know this is the right way we should be communicating science.	我收到的反馈，经常包含拼写错误 经常包含各种聊天缩写 但是撇开这些 我很感激这些评论 让我知道我的方法是正确的 我们就应该这样传授科学知识
There's still so much work left to be done, though, and if you're involved with science in any way I urge you to join me.	虽然还有很多很多的工作要做 如果你也有参与科学工作 我请求你加入我的行动。
Pick up a camera, start to write a blog, whatever, but leave out the seriousness, leave out the jargon.	录段视频，写篇博客，怎么都行， 但是请抛开严谨性，抛开术语口号。
Make me laugh. Make me care.	逗观众开心，吸引他们注意。
Leave out those annoying details that nobody cares about and just get to the point.	抛开这些没人关心的恼人的细节 直击重点。
How should you start?	如何开场？
Why don't you say, "Listen, let me tell you a story"?	为什么不尝试说："来，我给你讲个故事"
Thank you.	谢谢。
What's happening to the climate?	气候到底发生了什么？
It is unbelievably bad.	糟糕地让人难以置信。
This is, obviously, that famous view now of the Arctic, which is likely to be gone at this point in the next three or four or five years. Very, very, very scary.	显然，这是我们所熟悉的北极美景， 而这将很快消失不见， 可能只是三、四或五年之后。非常！非常！非常可怕！
So we all look at what we can do.	所以我们都在思考着我们对此能够做些什么。
And when you look at the worldwide sources of CO2, 52 percent are tied to buildings.	当我们看到世界范围内二氧化碳的来源图时， 52%与建筑物有关。
Only nine percent is passenger cars, interestingly enough.	说来有趣，只有9%来自汽车。
So we ran off to a sushi bar.	有次我们来到了某个寿司吧。
And at that sushi bar we came up with a great idea.	而在这个寿司吧中我们有了一个伟大的想法。
And it was something called EcoRock.	它被命名为生态石。
And we said we could redesign the 115-year-old gypsum drywall process that generates 20 billion pounds of CO2 a year.	我们说自己能够重新设计具有115年历史的 石膏墙体工艺，正是它 每年产生着200亿磅的二氧化碳。
So it was a big idea. We wanted to reduce that by 80 percent, which is exactly what we've done.	因此这是一个伟大的想法。我们希望在这个数字的基础上降低80%。 这正是我们所完成的。
We started R&amp;D in 2006.	我们于2006年开始进行研发。
Decided to use recycled content from cement and steel manufacturing.	并决定使用从水泥和 钢铁制造生产中所提取的可回收组分。
There is the inside of our lab. We haven't shown this before.	这是我们的实验室。之前并没有向外展示过。
But our people had to do some 5,000 different mixes to get this right, to hit our targets.	但是我们的成员们不得不尝试5000种 不同的配方以找到最佳配方并满足我们的目标。
And they worked absolutely very, very, very hard.	他们真的非常非常非常努力地工作。
So then we went forward and built our production line in China.	然后我们进一步在中国建设了生产线。
We don't build this production equipment any longer in the U.S., unfortunately.	遗憾地是我们将不会在美国建立这样的生产线。
We did the line install over the summer.	整个夏天我们都忙于生产线的安装。
We started right there, with absolutely nothing.	我们就是从那里开始，从无到有。
You're seeing for the first time, a brand new drywall production line, not made using gypsum at all.	您将会第一次看到全新的墙体生产线 完全不使用石膏。
That's the finished production line there.	那是我们所完成的生产线。
We got our first panel out on December third.	并在12月3日生产出第一块墙板。
That is the slurry being poured onto paper, basically. That's the line running.	这是原料浆正被倒在纸板上。那是正在运行中的生产线。
The exciting thing is, look at the faces of the people.	最让人兴奋的是，看看这些人的表情。
These are people who worked this project for two to three years.	他们为了这个项目整整工作了两三年
And they are so excited. That's the first board off the line.	他们是如此兴奋。那是顺利下线的第一块墙板。
Our Vice President of Operation kissing the board. Obviously very, very excited.	我们的运营副总裁正在亲吻这块墙板。很明显他非常非常兴奋。
But this has a huge, huge impact on the environment.	这将会对环境造成巨大的影响。
We signed the first panel just a few weeks after that, had a great signing ceremony, leading to people hopefully using these products across the world.	几周之后我们举行了盛大的签字仪式，大家都在这第一块墙板上签上自己的名字。 希望全世界的人可以开始使用这些产品。
And we've got Cradle-to-Cradle Gold on this thing.	这个产品得到了C2C标志认证。
We happened to win, just recently, the Green Product of the Year for "The Re-Invention of Drywall," from Popular Science.	我们最近还以"墙体材料的改良发明" 获得《科技新时代》杂志所评选的年度绿色产品奖。
Thank you. Thank you.	谢谢，谢谢！
So here is what we learned: 8,000 gallons of gas equivalent to build one house.	这里是我们所学到的。8000加仑的气体 相当于建造一座房屋。
You probably had no idea. It's like driving around the world six times.	也许你不太清楚，这相当于开车绕地球六圈。
We must change everything.	我们必须改变一切。
Look around the room: chairs, wood, everything around us has to change or we're not going to lick this problem.	看看我们的房间，椅子，木材。 所有我们身边的一切都必须改变，否则我们无法轻易解决这个问题。
Don't listen to the people who say you can't do this, because anyone can.	请不要听您们周围的人说您做不到，因为每一个人都可以做到
And these job losses, we can fix them with green-collar jobs.	对于失业者，我们将会提供"绿领"工作岗位。
We've got four plants. We're building this stuff around the country.	我们有四座工厂，并正在全国范围内不断建造中。
We're going as fast as we can.	我们将尽可能加速进度。
Two and a half million cars worth of gypsum, you know, CO2 generated. Right?	石膏的碳排量相当于250万辆汽车， 这我们已经认识到了，是吧？
Those are my kids, Natalie and David.	这是我的孩子，纳塔莉和大卫。
When they have their kids, 2050, they'd better look back at Grandpa and say, "Hey, you gave it a good shot. You did the best you could with the team that you had."	当他们在2050年有了自己的孩子时。 他们将会看着爷爷说 "嘿，你干得不错。你和你的团队 已倾尽所能。"
So my hope is that when you leave TED, you will look at reducing your carbon footprint in however you can do it.	所以我希望你们离开TED后， 请想办法降低自己的碳排放量 并为此尽一切努力。
And if you don't know how, please find me -- I will help you.	当不知道如何做时，请联系我。我将会帮助您。
Last but not least, Bill Gates, I know you invented Windows.	最后一点，比尔·盖茨，我知道你发明了视窗操作系统
Wait till you see, maybe next year, what kind of windows we've invented.	等着瞧，明年我们能发明出怎样的窗子。
Thank you so much.	感谢大家的倾听。
Hi. I am an architect.	大家好！我是一位建筑设计师。
I am the only architect in the world making buildings out of paper like this cardboard tube, and this exhibition is the first one I did using paper tubes.	我是世界上唯一一位以纸为建筑材料的 建筑师，就比如用这样的硬纸管。 这是我第一个用纸管 举办的展览。
1986, much, much longer before people started talking about ecological issues and environmental issues, I just started testing the paper tube in order to use this as a building structure.	早在1986年，关于生态和环境问题的 讨论还远远没有开始的时候 我刚刚开始测试纸筒 以便将其作为一种建筑结构使用
It's very complicated to test the new material for the building, but this is much stronger than I expected, and also it's very easy to waterproof, and also, because it's industrial material, it's also possible to fireproof.	测试新的建筑材料过程很复杂， 但纸管比我想象的要坚实许多， 而且进行防水处理也很容易， 加上纸是工业材料，所以 进行防火处理也是可能的，
Then I built the temporary structure, 1990.	接着在1990年，我搭建了这个临时的建筑结构。
This is the first temporary building made out of paper.	这是第一座纸制的临时性建筑。
There are 330 tubes, diameter 55 [centimeters], there are only 12 tubes with a diameter of 120 centimeters, or four feet, wide.	由330个直径为55厘米的纸筒组成， 只有12个纸筒的直径有120厘米， 或者说四英尺宽。
As you see it in the photo, inside is the toilet.	从照片上可以看到，里面是厕所。
In case you're finished with toilet paper, you can tear off the inside of the wall.	万一卫生纸用完了， 可以从墙上撕点下来。
So it's very useful.	所以说它很实用。
Year 2000, there was a big expo in Germany.	2000年，德国举办了一次盛大的世博会。
I was asked to design the building, because the theme of the expo was environmental issues.	我受邀设计世博会日本馆。 因为环境问题是这次世博会的主题，
So I was chosen to build the pavilion out of paper tubes, recyclable paper.	所以就选定了我来用纸筒建展览馆， 可反复利用的纸。
My goal of the design is not when it's completed.	我的设计其目标并不在于建成，
My goal was when the building was demolished, because each country makes a lot of pavilions but after half a year, we create a lot of industrial waste, so my building has to be reused or recycled.	我的目标是能把这个建筑拆掉。 因为每个国家都建许多展览馆， 但半年以后，剩下的是一大堆工业废品， 因此，我所建的必须能够再利用或回收利用。
After, the building was recycled.	世博会后，这座建筑就被回收利用了。
So that was the goal of my design.	这就是我设计的目标。
Then I was very lucky to win the competition to build the second Pompidou Center in France in the city of Metz.	然后，我很幸运地赢得比赛 进而取得了在法国梅茨城建造蓬皮杜中心 新馆的机会。
Because I was so poor, I wanted to rent an office in Paris, but I couldn't afford it, so I decided to bring my students to Paris to build our office on top of the Pompidou Center in Paris by ourselves.	因为我当时很穷， 本想在巴黎租一个办公室， 却又租不起， 所以我决定带我的学生到巴黎 在蓬皮中心的楼顶搭建我们的办公室 我们自己建。
So we brought the paper tubes and the wooden joints to complete the 35-meter-long office.	于是我们就带着纸筒和木质连接 建成了这35米长的办公室。
We stayed there for six years without paying any rent.	我们在那里待了六年，不用付任何房租
Thank you. I had one big problem.	谢谢。当时我有个不小的问题。
Because we were part of the exhibition, even if my friend wanted to see me, they had to buy a ticket to see me.	因为我们也是展会的一部分， 即便是我的朋友要见我，他们也要买票才能见到我。
That was the problem.	问题就在这儿。
Then I completed the Pompidou Center in Metz.	然后我完成了梅兹蓬皮中心的建造。
It's a very popular museum now, and I created a big monument for the government.	中心现已成为非常受欢迎的博物馆， 我还为政府建造了一个庞大的纪念碑。
But then I was very disappointed at my profession as an architect, because we are not helping, we are not working for society, but we are working for privileged people, rich people, government, developers.	但我当时对自己的建筑师职业 却感到很失望， 因为我们并不是在帮助社会，为民众工作， 而是为有权势的人工作， 富人、政府、开发商。
They have money and power.	他们有钱有权。
Those are invisible.	财富和权力是无形的。
So they hire us to visualize their power and money by making monumental architecture.	所以他们就通过雇用我们来建造宏伟的建筑 来彰显他们的权力和财富。
That is our profession, even historically it's the same, even now we are doing the same.	这就是我们的职业，甚至在历史上也是如此， 直到现在我们还在做着同样的事。
So I was very disappointed that we are not working for society, even though there are so many people who lost their houses by natural disasters.	因此我对于我们并不是为社会大众服务而感到非常失落， 即使有这么多的人 因为自然灾害流离失所。
But I must say they are no longer natural disasters.	但我必须要说的是罪魁祸首并不是自然灾害。
For example, earthquakes never kill people, but collapse of the buildings kill people.	打个比方，地震从来都不夺人性命， 建筑倒塌才是致死原因。
That's the responsibility of architects.	这是建筑师的责任。
Then people need some temporary housing, but there are no architects working there because we are too busy working for privileged people.	人们需要一个临时住房时， 却没有搭建这些临时住房的建筑师 因为我们都忙着为有权势的人工作。
So I thought, even as architects, we can be involved in the reconstruction of temporary housing.	所以，我想，作为建筑师， 我们也可以参与临时住房的重建。
We can make it better.	我们可以对其进行改善。
So that is why I started working in disaster areas.	因此我开始在灾难地区工作。
1994, there was a big disaster in Rwanda, Africa.	1994年非洲卢旺达发生了一场大灾难。
Two tribes, Hutu and Tutsi, fought each other.	胡图族和图西族两个部落互相残杀。
Over two million people became refugees.	两百多万人变为难民。
But I was so surprised to see the shelter, refugee camp organized by the U.N.	但当我看到由联合国安排的帐篷和难民营时， 我大吃一惊。
They're so poor, and they are freezing with blankets during the rainy season, In the shelters built by the U.N., they were just providing a plastic sheet, and the refugees had to cut the trees, and just like this.	帐篷都很破旧，雨季期间 批着毛毯也十分的冷， 联合国搭建的帐篷中， 只提供了一张塑料垫子， 而难民不得不去砍树，就像这样。
But over two million people cut trees.	但两百多万人去砍树，
It just became big, heavy deforestation and an environmental problem.	就演变成了大片的严重的森林采伐 并造成了环境问题。
That is why they started providing aluminum pipes, aluminum barracks.	正因如此，联合国就开始提供铝制的管子和棚屋。
Very expensive, they throw them out for money, then cutting trees again.	很贵，于是就被当地人拿去换钱了， 然后又砍起树来。
So I proposed my idea to improve the situation using these recycled paper tubes because this is so cheap and also so strong, but my budget is only 50 U.S. dollars per unit.	于是，我提出了利用这些再生纸管 来改善现状的想法 因为纸管便宜又坚实。 但我的预算只有每个50美元。
We built 50 units to do that as a monitoring test for the durability and moisture and termites, so on.	我们就搭建了50个用来监控测试 其耐用性，抗湿和防白蚁能力等等。
And then, year afterward, 1995, in Kobe, Japan, we had a big earthquake.	接着一年后，1995年，日本的神户， 发生了一起大地震。
Nearly 7,000 people were killed, and the city like this Nagata district, all the city was burned in a fire after the earthquake.	将近七千人死亡， 而整座城就像这长田区一样， 都在地震后的大火中焚烧着。
And also I found out there's many Vietnamese refugees suffering and gathering at a Catholic church -- all the building was totally destroyed.	我发现有很多越南来的难民 聚集在一个天主教教堂旁边，忍受着痛苦。 整座教堂全部烧毁。
So I went there and also I proposed to the priests, "Why don't we rebuild the church out of paper tubes?"	我就到那里去并向神父提出， "我们何不用纸筒重建教堂呢？"
And he said, "Oh God, are you crazy?	他叫道，"哦天哪，你疯了么？
After a fire, what are you proposing?"	火灾刚过啊，你这是在说什么啊？"
So he never trusted me, but I didn't give up.	所以他一直都不信任我，不过我没有放弃。
I started commuting to Kobe, and I met the society of Vietnamese people.	我开始常去神户， 接触了越南人的社区。
They were living like this with very poor plastic sheets in the park.	他们就这样住在一个公园，在破烂的 塑料帐篷中。
So I proposed to rebuild. I raised -- did fundraising.	于是我提议重建（住所）并筹集了资金。
I made a paper tube shelter for them, and in order to make it easy to be built by students and also easy to demolish, I used beer crates as a foundation.	我为他们制作了一个纸筒帐篷。 为了方便学生搭建 与拆除， 我使用啤酒箱作为地基。
I asked the Kirin beer company to propose, because at that time, the Asahi beer company made their plastic beer crates red, which doesn't go with the color of the paper tubes.	我请麒麟啤酒公司来提议， 因为当时朝日啤酒 生产的啤酒箱是红色的， 与纸筒的颜色不相称。
The color coordination is very important.	颜色协调是非常重要的。
And also I still remember, we were expecting to have a beer inside the plastic beer crate, but it came empty.	我还记得当时我们还期待着塑料 啤酒箱中还有啤酒可以喝， 但送来的啤酒箱是空的。
So I remember it was so disappointing.	我记得大家都很失望。
So during the summer with my students, we built over 50 units of the shelters.	整个夏天我和我的学生， 搭建了50个这样的帐篷。
Finally the priest, finally he trusted me to rebuild.	最后神父终于相信了我，允许我重建教堂。
He said, "As long as you collect money by yourself, bring your students to build, you can do it."	他说，"只要你自己集资， 带你的学生来建，就行。"
So we spent five weeks rebuilding the church.	于是我们花了五个星期的时间重建了这座教堂。
It was meant to stay there for three years, but actually it stayed there 10 years because people loved it.	原先计划这座教堂会在那里保存三年， 但因为人们的厚爱，这座教堂矗立在那里整整十年
Then, in Taiwan, they had a big earthquake, and we proposed to donate this church, so we dismantled them, we sent them over to be built by volunteer people.	然后，台湾发生了一场大地震， 我们提议捐出这座教堂， 于是我们就拆解下纸管， 我们把纸管送去那里由志愿者搭建。
It stayed there in Taiwan as a permanent church even now.	这座教堂就长驻台湾，成为了一个永久教堂直至今日。
So this building became a permanent building.	于是这座建筑就变成了一座永久的建筑。
Then I wonder, what is a permanent and what is a temporary building?	而后我就想，什么是永久的，而什么又是临时性的建筑？
Even a building made in paper can be permanent as long as people love it.	即使是一个用纸搭建的建筑， 只要人们喜欢，它就可以变成永恒的。
Even a concrete building can be very temporary if that is made to make money.	即使是一个混凝土建筑，如果它是为了赚钱而建的， 那也可以在瞬间烟消云散。
In 1999, in Turkey, the big earthquake, I went there to use the local material to build a shelter.	1999年，土耳其发生了大地震。 我去那里利用当地的材料搭建了一个避难所。
2001, in West India, I built also a shelter.	2001年，在西印度，我也搭建了一个避难所。
In 2004, in Sri Lanka, after the Sumatra earthquake and tsunami, I rebuilt Islamic fishermen's villages.	2004年，斯里兰卡发生苏门答腊地震和海啸之后， 我重建了伊斯兰渔民的村庄。
And in 2008, in Chengdu, Sichuan area in China, nearly 70,000 people were killed, and also especially many of the schools were destroyed because of the corruption between the authority and the contractor.	2008年，中国的成都四川地区， 将近七万人遇难， 特别是很多学校被毁 原因是政府部门与承包商之间的腐败行为。
I was asked to rebuild the temporary church.	我受托重建这座临时教堂。
I brought my Japanese students to work with the Chinese students.	我带着我的日本学生与中国学生合作，
In one month, we completed nine classrooms, over 500 square meters.	一个月之内，我们建成了九个教室， 总面积超过500平米。
It's still used, even after the current earthquake in China.	即使在中国最近发生的地震之后，教堂依然在使用中。
In 2009, in Italy, L'Aquila, also they had a big earthquake.	2009年，意大利的拉奎拉也发生大地震。
And this is a very interesting photo: former Prime Minister Berlusconi and Japanese former former former former Prime Minister Mr. Aso -- you know, because we have to change the prime minister ever year.	这是一张很有趣的照片： 前任总理贝卢斯科尼与 日本前前前前任首相麻生先生 大家都知道我们的首相是年年换的。
And they are very kind, affording my model.	他们都很友善，资助了我的模型。
I proposed a big rebuilding, a temporary music hall, because L'Aquila is very famous for music and all the concert halls were destroyed, so musicians were moving out.	我提议进行一次大重建，建一个临时的音乐大厅， 因为拉奎拉以音乐著称, 而且所有的音乐会厅都被毁了， 所以音乐家都离开了。
So I proposed to the mayor, I'd like to rebuild the temporary auditorium.	所以我就向市长提出， 我希望能重建这个临时音乐厅。
He said, "As long as you bring your money, you can do it."	他说："只要你自己筹款建，你就可以建。"
And I was very lucky.	我当时很幸运。
Mr. Berlusconi brought G8 summit, and our former prime minister came, so they helped us to collect money, and I got half a million euros from the Japanese government to rebuild this temporary auditorium.	贝卢斯科尼先生组织了八国峰会， 我们曾经的首相也来了， 于是他们帮助我们筹到了资金， 我从日本政府那里获得了五十万欧元 来重建这座临时音乐厅。
Year 2010 in Haiti, there was a big earthquake, but it's impossible to fly over, so I went to Santo Domingo, next-door country, to drive six hours to get to Haiti with the local students in Santo Domingo to build 50 units of shelter out of local paper tubes.	2010年，海地发生大地震， 但是没有直达那里的飞机， 就是我就去了邻国圣多明各， 然后与那里当地的学生 开6个小时的车到达海地 用当地的纸筒搭建了50个避难所。
This is what happened in Japan two years ago, in northern Japan.	这是两年前在日本，日本的北部所是发生的事。
After the earthquake and tsunami, people had to be evacuated in a big room like a gymnasium.	地震和海啸过后， 人们要疏散到一个像体育馆的地方
But look at this. There's no privacy.	但可以看出，那里丝毫没有隐私。
People suffer mentally and physically.	人们身心都在煎熬。
So we went there to build partitions with all the student volunteers with paper tubes, just a very simple shelter out of the tube frame and the curtain.	于是我们就去那里建隔板。 所有这些学生志愿者带着纸筒去了， 就是一个很简单用纸管搭成的框架外加窗帘构成的避难所
However, some of the facility authority doesn't want us to do it, because, they said, simply, it's become more difficult to control them.	可是，设施部门的一些人 不想我们做这件事，因为他们说 这样一来控制这些人就变得更困难。
But it's really necessary to do it.	但是，事实证明立隔板是有必要的。
They don't have enough flat area to build standard government single-story housing like this one.	他们没有足够的平地建设 像这样的普通公用单层住房。
Look at this. Even civil government is doing such poor construction of the temporary housing, so dense and so messy because there is no storage, nothing, water is leaking, so I thought, we have to make multi-story building because there's no land and also it's not very comfortable.	看看这个，甚至公民政府的临时性住房 构建也如此简陋。 这样的拥挤、杂乱，没有储藏处，什么都没有，还漏水， 于是我想， 我们必须建多层楼的房子（才能解决） 没有土地，住着又非常不舒服
So I proposed to the mayor while I was making partitions.	所以我就边搭建隔板，边向市长提议
Finally I met a very nice mayor in Onagawa village in Miyagi.	最后我在宫城县的女川村遇到一个非常好的 市长。
He asked me to build three-story housing on baseball [fields].	他要我在棒球场上搭建三层楼的住房。
I used the shipping container and also the students helped us to make all the building furniture to make them comfortable, within the budget of the government but also the area of the house is exactly the same, but much more comfortable.	我利用了海运集装箱 并且，学生们也帮助我们作了 所有的建筑家具， 把一切布置得很舒适 花费也保持在政府预算之内 房子的面积一模一样， 但舒适许多。
Many of the people want to stay here forever.	很多人都想永远待在这里。
I was very happy to hear that.	我听了十分高兴。
Now I am working in New Zealand, Christchurch.	现在我在新西兰的克赖斯特彻奇工作
About 20 days before the Japanese earthquake happened, also they had a big earthquake, and many Japanese students were also killed, and the most important cathedral of the city, the symbol of Christchurch, was totally destroyed.	在日本发生地震的大概20天前， 他们也经历了一场大地震， 很多日本学生遇难， 这座城市最重要的大教堂， 也是克赖斯特彻奇的标志完全毁灭。
And I was asked to come to rebuild the temporary cathedral.	我受托来重建临时大教堂
So this is under construction.	现在还在建设中。
And I'd like to keep building monuments that are beloved by people.	我希望能继续创造为人们 所喜爱的有纪念价值的建筑作品。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢大家。
Thank you.	谢谢大家。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢大家。
I have 18 minutes to tell you what happened over the past six million years.	在接下来的18分钟里，我要向你们讲述 过去六百万年内发生的事情。
All right.	开始吧。
We all have come from a long way, here in Africa, and converged in this region of Africa, which is a place where 90 percent of our evolutionary process took place.	我们都经历了漫长的历程， 在非洲这里，在非洲这一地区相聚， 这里是我们90%的进化过程的发生之地。
And I say that not because I am African, but it's in Africa that you find the earliest evidence for human ancestors, upright walking traces, even the first technologies in the form of stone tools.	我这么说的原因不是因为我是个非洲人， 而是因为在非洲，你可以找到 关于人类祖先的最早证据、直立行走的痕迹、 甚至是最早的科技──石器。
So we all are Africans, and welcome home.	所以我们都是非洲人。欢迎你们回家。
All right.	好的。
I'm a paleoanthropologist, and my job is to define man's place in nature and explore what makes us human.	我是一名古人类学家，我的职责是去定义 人类在大自然中的地位，并且探究人类的本质，
And today, I will use Selam, the earliest child ever discovered, to tell you a story of all of us.	今天我就要通过塞拉姆──至今发现的最远古的小孩── 来讲述一个关于我们所有人的故事。
Selam is our most complete skeleton of a three-year-old girl who lived and died 3.3 million years ago.	塞拉姆是我们所拥有的最完整的三岁小女孩的骨骼， 她生活在330万年前。
She belongs to the species known as Australopithecus afarensis.	她属于南方古猿阿法种，
You don't need to remember that.	你不需要记住这个。
That's the Lucy species, and was found by my research team in December of 2000 in an area called Dikika.	那也是露西的种族，是由我的研究小组 在2000年的12月份在一个叫做Dikika的地方发现的。
It's in the northeastern part of Ethiopia.	是在埃塞俄比亚的东北部。
And Selam means peace in many Ethiopian languages.	塞拉姆在很多埃塞俄比亚语言中都代表着"和平"。
We use that name to celebrate peace in the region and in the planet.	我们选用了这个名字来庆祝这一区域和这个星球上的和平。
And the fact that it was the cover story of all these famous magazines gives you already an idea of her significance, I think.	这些著名杂志都用其作为头版头条， 这一点就可以告诉你其重要性了。
After I was invited by TED, I did some digging, because that's what we do, to know about my host.	在受到TED的邀请之后，我决定做一点"钻研"（一词双意：digging既指"研究"，又指"挖掘"。） 来进一步了解TED，毕竟我是干这一行的。
You don't just jump into an invitation.	不能茫然地接受邀请。
And I learned that the first technology appeared in the form of stone tools, 2.6 million years ago.	通过我的研究，我发现最早的"科技" 是260万年前的石器，
First entertainment comes evidence from flutes that are 35,000 years old.	最早的"娱乐"来自35000年前的笛子，
And evidence for first design comes 75,000 years old -- beads.	而最早的"设计"则有75000年的历史──是珠子。
And you can do the same with your genes and track them back in time.	你也可以用同样的办法追溯你的基因的历史。
And DNA analysis of living humans and chimpanzees teaches us today that we diverged sometime around seven million years ago and that these two species share over 98 percent of the same genetic material.	而对现存的人类和猩猩的研究 告诉我们大概在7百万年前，人类和猩猩分道扬镳， 至今这两个物种仍然有98%的共同基因。
I think knowing this is a very useful context within which we can think of our ancestry.	我认为，了解这些为我们对祖先的研究 提供了非常有用的背景资料。
However, DNA analysis informs us only about the beginning and the end, telling us nothing about what happened in the middle.	不过，这些研究只告诉了我们开始和结局， 却没有告诉 其中都经历了什么。
So, for us, paleoanthropologists, our job is to find the hard evidence, the fossil evidence, to fill in this gap and see the different stages of development.	而对于我们古人类学家而言，我们的工作就是找到确凿的证据， 化石证据，来填补其中的空白， 呈现发展过程中的各个阶段。
Because it's only when you do that, that you can talk about -- -- it's only when you do that, [that] you can talk about how we looked like and how we behaved at different times, and how those likes and looks and behaviors changed through time.	只有做到这一点之后，你才可以讨论... 只有做到这一点之后，你才可以讨论 在不同时期我们的相貌和我们的行为， 以及这些喜好、相貌和行为如何随着时间的流逝而变化，
That then gives you an access to explore the biological mechanisms and forces that are responsible for this gradual change that made us what we are today.	那时这就可以给我们一个 探索这样的生命机制， 正是这些机制和力量逐渐 把我们变成今天这个样子。
But finding the hard evidence is a very complicated endeavor.	但是找到确凿的证据是一件非常复杂的任务。
It's a systematic and scientific approach, which takes you to places that are remote, hot, hostile and often with no access.	这是一个系统和科学方法， 来带你去很遥远、炎热、危险并常常无法进入的地方。
Just to give you an example, when I went to Dikika, where Selam was found, in '99 -- and it's about 500 kilometers from Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia.	比如，当我们去Dikika， 也就是塞勒姆99年被发现的地方，那里离Addis Ababa 埃塞俄比亚的首都约有500公里。
It took us only seven hours to do the first 470 kilometers of the 500, but took four, solid hours to do the last only 30 kilometers.	500公里的前470公里只花了我们7小时的时间， 但其后的30个小时足足花了我们整整4个小时。
With the help of the locals and using just shovels and picks, I made my way.	在当地人的帮助之下，使用锹和镐，我开辟了了一条路。
I was the first person to actually drive a car to the spot.	我算是开车到这个地方的第一个人。
When you get there, this is what you see, and it's the vastness of the place which makes you feel helpless and vulnerable.	当你到那儿的时候，这就是你所看到的， 这片区域的广袤让你感到自身的无助和脆弱。
And once you make it there, the big question is where to start.	一旦你到了那里，最大的问题就是从哪里开始。
And you find nothing for years and years.	然后你年复一年，什么也找不到。
When I go to places like this, which are paleontological sites, it's like going to a game park, an extinct game park.	当我去这样的古人类学研究现场时， 就像是去一家游乐园，一家灭绝的游乐园。
But what you find are not the human remains, such as Selam and Lucy, on a day-to-day basis.	但是你找到的并不是在通常意义上存在的人类， 就像是塞勒姆和露西。
You find elephants, rhinos, monkeys, pigs, etc.	你找到的是大象，犀牛，猴子，野猪等等。
But you could ask, how could these large mammals live in this desert environment?	但你可能会问，这样大型的动物 如何能够生存在这样的沙漠环境中？
Of course, they cannot, but I'm telling you already that the environment and the carrying capacity of this region was drastically different from what we have today.	他们当然不能，但我已经告诉你的是 这个环境及这个地区的承载能力已经与我们今天 的情况产生了急剧的变化。
A very important environmental lesson could be learned from this.	我们可以从这里学到一堂非常重要的生态课程。
Anyway, once we made it there, then it's a game park, as I said, an extinct game park.	不管怎样，当我们到了那里，它就是个游乐场，就像我说的那样，一个灭绝的游乐场。
And our ancestors lived in that game park, but were just the minorities. They were not as successful and as widespread as the Homo sapiens that we are.	而且我们的祖先也生活在那个游乐场， 但我们只是少数派。他们并不像智人那样 成功生存而且广泛分布。
To tell you just an example, an anecdote about their rarity, I was going to this place every year and would do fieldwork here, and the assistants, of course, helped me do the surveys.	再给你们举一个例子，一些关于他们稀缺性的奇闻轶事， 我每年都要去这个地方，去做实地调查， 当然，我的助手帮助我去做这些调查。
They would find a bone and tell me, "Here is what you're looking for."	他们会找到一块骨头然后告诉我，"这就是你要找的。"
I would say, "No, that's an elephant."	我会说，"不，这是一块大象的骨头。"
Again, another one, "That's a monkey." "That's a pig," etc.	再一次，另外一块——"这是一只猴子的骨头，""那是一只野猪的骨头，"等等。
So one of my assistants, who never went to school, said to me, "Listen, Zeray.	因此，我的一位从未上过学的助手，对我说，"听着，Zeray。
You either don't know what you're looking for, or you're looking in the wrong place," he said.	你或者不知道你要找什么， 也不知道你是不是找对地方了，"他说。
And I said, "Why?" "Because there were elephants and lions, and the people were scared and went somewhere else.	然后我说，"为什么？"因为这里有大象和狮子， 所以人类会恐惧，就搬到其他地方去了。
Let's go somewhere else."	我们去别的地方吧。"
Well, he was very tired, and it's really tiring.	好吧，他非常疲惫，而且这件事真的很让人倦怠。
It was then, after such hard work and many frustrating years that we found Selam, and you see the face here covered by sandstone.	找到了塞勒姆，经过如此艰苦的工作和令人沮丧的岁月后 你可以看到这里被砂岩覆盖的面孔。
And here is actually the spinal column and the whole torso encased in a sandstone block, because she was buried by a river.	这里实际上是嵌在一块砂岩中的 脊柱和整个躯体， 因为她被一条河流所埋葬。
What you have here seems to be nothing, but contains an incredible amount of scientific information that helps us explore what makes us human.	你现在所拥有的貌似什么都不是， 但包含了大量不可思议的科学讯息， 能够帮助我们了解是什么让我们成为人类。
This is the earliest and most complete juvenile human ancestor ever found in the history of paleoanthropology, an amazing piece of our long, long history.	这是古人类学历史上找到的最早和 最年少的人类祖先—— 这段历史是我们长久历史中最叹为观止的片段。
There were these three people and me, and I am taking the pictures, that's why I am not in.	这是我和其他三个人，我正在拍照， 所以我不在镜头中。
How would you feel if you were me? You have something extraordinary in your hand, but you are in the middle of nowhere?	如果你是我，你的手中捧着意义非凡的东西，但你却不是中心或焦点， 你会怎么想？
The feeling I had was a deep and quiet happiness and excitement, of course accompanied by a huge sense of responsibility, of making sure everything is safe.	我的感觉就是，非常深切的快乐和激动， 当然随之而来的是巨大的责任感， 那种要确保所有事都安全。
Here is a close-up of the fossil, after five years of cleaning, preparation and description, which was very long, as I had to expose the bones from the sandstone block I just showed you in the previous slide.	这是一块化石的特写， 它经过了5年的清理、准备和修饰——那时间非常长， 而且我需要把骨头从砂岩块中取出来 那块砂岩我在前一张片子里给大家演示了。
It took five years.	这花费了5年。
In a way, this was like the second birth for the child, after 3.3 million years, but the labor was very long.	在某种程度下，这就像是这个孩子在330万年之后的第二次重生， 但是劳动的时间很长。
And here is full scale -- it's a tiny bone.	这里是一个完整的——这是一块小骨头。
And in the middle is the minister of Ethiopian tourism, who came to visit the National Museum of Ethiopia while I was working there.	中间这个是埃塞俄比亚的旅游部长， 当我在埃塞俄比亚的国家博物馆工作的时候，他造访了那里。
And you see me worried and trying to protect my child, because you don't leave anyone with this kind of child, even a minister.	你可以看到我很担心，试图保护我的孩子， 因为你不会把那样的孩子留给任何人， 即使是一个部长。
So then, once you've done that, the next stage is to know what it is.	所以，一旦你那样做了，下一步就是弄明白那样的行为是什么意思。
Once that was done, then it was possible to compare.	一旦工作完成了，就有进行比较的可能性了。
We were able to tell that she belonged to the human family tree because the legs, the foot, and some features clearly showed that she walked upright, and upright walking is a hallmark in humanity.	我们能够告诉大家的是她属于 人类的大家庭，因为她的腿、脚、 和其他一些特征很明显的显示了她直立行走， 而直立行走是人类的专属标志。
But in addition, if you compare the skull with a comparably aged chimpanzee and little George Bush here, you see that you have vertical forehead.	不过另外，如果你你把这个头骨与 一个对等年龄的黑猩猩以及这里的小布什相比， 你们可以看到有垂直的额头，
And you see that in humans, because of the development of the pre-frontal cortex, it's called.	这是在人类中，由于所谓的 大脑前叶的发展所造成的——
You don't see that in chimpanzees, and you don't see this very projecting canine.	而你在黑猩猩的身上看不到这一点， 而且你也看不到这样突出的犬齿。
So she belongs to our family tree, but within that, of course, you do detailed analysis, and we know now that she belongs to the Lucy species, known as Australopithecus afarensis.	所以她属于我们这一族谱，当然，随着我们 进行了详细的分析，我们现在知道 她属于"露西"一族，这一族 被称做阿法南方古猿。
The next exciting question is, girl or boy?	下一个令人激动的问题是女孩还是男孩，
And how old was she when she died?	当她死亡的时候有多大？
You can determine the sex of the individual based on the size of the teeth.	你可以根据牙齿的大小判断 一个人的性别。
How?	怎么做到？
You know, in primates, there is this phenomenon called sexual dimorphism, which simply means males are larger than females and males have larger teeth than the females.	大家知道，在灵长类动物中，有一种现象 叫做两性异型，简单来讲就是 男性要比女性要大一些， 男性的牙齿要比女性更大。
But to do that, you need the permanent dentition, which you don't see here, because what you have here are the baby teeth.	不过要做到那一点，你需要找到恒齿， 我们在这里看不到，因为我们所有的是 婴儿的牙齿。
But using the CT scanning technology, which is normally used for medical purposes, you can go deep into the mouth and come up with this beautiful image showing you both the baby teeth here and the still-growing adult teeth here.	但使用CT扫描技术， 即常用于医学目的的那种—— 你可以深入口腔，获取那些既可以显示婴儿牙齿 又可以显示正在生长的成人牙齿 的美丽图像。
So when you measure those teeth, it was clear that she turned out to be a girl with very small canine teeth.	所以当我们测量这些牙齿时， 就这么小的犬齿来看，很明显 她是个女孩。
And to know how old she was when she died, what you do is you do an informed estimate, and you say, how much time would be required to form this amount of teeth, and the answer was three.	要想知道她死时有多少岁，你能够做的 就是去做一个可靠的估计，你要知道形成这个牙齿要花多长时间， 我们的答案就是三岁。
So, this girl died when she was about three, 3.3 million years ago.	因此这个女孩在约三岁时夭折了， 距今330万年。
So, with all that information, the big question is -- what do we actually -- what does she tell us?	因此有了这么多信息，最大的问题就是—— 我们实际上——她告诉了我们什么事情？
To answer this question, we can phrase another question.	要回答这个问题，我们可以引用另一个问题——
What do we actually know about our ancestors?	关于我们的祖先我们究竟了解多少？
We want to know how they looked like, how they behaved, how they walked around, and how they lived and grew up.	我们想了解他们长相如何，行为如何， 如何行走， 以及它们如何生活和成长。
And among the answers that you can get from this skeleton are included: first, this skeleton documents, for the first time, how infants looked over three million years ago.	你可以从这具骨骼中找到的答案已经 囊括了以上的疑问——首先，这句骨骼首次记录了 距今300万年前的孤儿长什么样儿。
And second, she tells us that she walked upright, but had some adaptation for tree climbing.	其次，她告诉了我们她是直立行走的， 不过仍具有一些爬树的适应性
And more interesting, however, is the brain in this child was still growing.	更令人觉得有趣的是，然而， 这个孩子的大脑仍然在成长。
At age three, if you have a still-growing brain, it's a human behavior.	三岁时，如果你的大脑还在成长， 这就属于人类的特征了。
In chimps, by age three, the brain is formed over 90 percent.	三岁的黑猩猩，其大脑已经90%成型。
That's why they can cope with their environment very easily after birth -- faster than us, anyway.	这正是它们在出生以后很快就能适应环境 的原因——无论怎样，适应的比我们快。
But in humans, we continue to grow our brains.	反观人类，我们则继续进行脑部发育。
That's why we need care from our parents.	这也是我们为何需要父母照顾的原因。
But that care means also you learn.	不过这种照看意味着你还在不断学习成长。
You spend more time with your parents.	你跟父母在一起的时间更长。
And that's very characteristic of humans and it's called childhood, which is this extended dependence of human children on their family or parents.	这是人类的典型特点，它叫做童年， 即人类儿童对其家庭或父母的 更长久的依赖。
So, the still-growing brain in this individual tells us that childhood, which requires an incredible social organization, a very complex social organization, emerged over three million years ago.	所以这个孩子正在成长的大脑 告诉我们她的童年开始于 300多万年前，而这需要 一个不可思议的社会组织， 一个非常复杂的社会组织。
So, by being at the cusp of our evolutionary history, Selam unites us all and gives us a unique account on what makes us human.	因此在我们进化历史的顶端， 塞勒姆将我们联合起来，给予我们之所以为人的 特殊依据。
But not everything was human, and I will give you a very exciting example.	不过并不是所有的特征都是人类，我会给你展示 一个非常令人激动的例证。
This is called the hyoid bone. It's a bone which is right here.	这个叫做舌骨。它就是长在这里的骨头。
It supports your tongue from behind.	它从后部支撑着你的舌头。
It's, in a way, your voice box.	在某种意义上，它是你的音箱。
It determines the type of voice you produce.	它决定了你发出的声音类型。
It was not known in the fossil record, and we have it in this skeleton.	在化石记录里，它并不出名， 我们在这具骨骼上发现了它。
When we did the analysis of this bone, it was clear that it looked very chimp-like, chimpanzee-like.	当我们对这块骨头进行分析时，很明显发现， 它非常像黑猩猩。
So if you were there 3.3 million years ago, to hear when this girl was crying out for her mother, she would have sounded more like a chimpanzee than a human.	因此，如果你处于330万年前， 听这个女孩哭喊着找妈妈时， 她听起来会更像黑猩猩而非人类。
Maybe you're wondering, "So, you see this ape feature, human feature, ape feature.	可能你在想，"那么你看到了猿类的特征，人类的特征，猿类的特征。
What does that tell us?"	它到底对我们意味着什么？"
You know, that is very exciting for us, because it demonstrates that things were changing slowly and progressively, and that evolution is in the making.	你要知道，那对我们来说实在激动人心， 因为它说明了事物是缓慢且不断前进的变化着的， 进化正在发生。
To summarize the significance of this fossil, we can say the following.	来总结一下这个化石的重要性， 我们可以谈到以下几点。
Up to now, the knowledge that we had about our ancestors came essentially from adult individuals because the fossils, the baby fossils, were missing.	迄今为止，我们拥有的关于我们祖先的知识 基本上来自于成年人的化石，因为 婴儿的化石是缺失的。
They don't preserve well, as you know.	正如你们所知道的，他们不易保存完好。
So the knowledge that we had about our ancestors, on how they looked like, how they behaved, was kind of biased toward adults.	所以我们拥有的关于我们祖先 长相如何，行为如何的知识， 只是基于成人的片面观点。
Imagine somebody coming from Mars and his job is to report on the type of people occupying our planet Earth, and you hide all the babies, the children, and he goes back and reports.	想象一下有人从火星而来， 他的工作就是记录并报告统治着地球的 人类物种，而我们把所有婴儿、儿童都藏起来了， 接着他便回去复命。
Can you imagine how much biased his report would be?	你可以想象这个报告将有多大的偏差么？
That's what somehow we were doing so far in the absence of the fossil children, so I think the new fossil fixes this problem.	这就是在缺少儿童化石的情况下，我们 到目前为止在做的工作， 因此我认为这些新化石解决了这个问题。
So, I think the most important question at the end is, what do we actually learn from specimens like this and from our past in general?	所以我觉得最终最重要的问题是， 从更普遍的意义上来讲，我们实际上从这样的标本 和我们的历史中学到了什么？
Of course, in addition to extracting this huge amount of scientific information as to what makes us human, you know, the many human ancestors that have existed over the past six million years -- and there are more than 10 -- they did not have the knowledge, the technology and sophistications that we, Homo sapiens, have today.	当然，除了提取到这么大量的科学信息 来证明我们之所以成为人类， 很多存在于过去600万年的远古人类祖先—— 至少有10个——他们并不具备这些 我们智人今天所拥有的知识、 技术和方法。
But if this species, ancient species, would travel in time and see us today, they would very much be very proud of their legacy, because they became the ancestors of the most successful species in the universe.	不过如果这个物种，远古的物种， 会通过时间旅行来看望今天的我们， 他们将会为他们所留的遗产而倍感骄傲， 因为他们是当前宇宙中最成功 物种的祖先。
And they were probably not aware of this future legacy, but they did great.	他们可能并不知道他们未来的遗产， 不过他们确实很伟大。
Now the question is, we Homo sapiens today are in a position to decide about the future of our planet, possibly more.	现在问题是，我们今天这些智人 正担负着决定我们的星球未来的责任，或者有可能责任更大。
So the question is, are we up to the challenge?	所以问题是，我们准备好去挑战了么？
And can we really do better than these primitive, small-brained ancestors?	我们真的能比这些先驱者、脑容量小的祖先 做得更好么？
Among the most pressing challenges that our species is faced with today are the chronic problems of Africa.	我们的物种今日所面临的最有挑战性的问题是 非洲长期存在的问题。
Needless to list them here, and there are more competent people to talk about this.	无需去列举，已经有很多智者 讨论过这些。
Still, in my opinion, we have two choices.	然而，我认为，我们有两种选择。
One is to continue to see a poor, ill, crying Africa, carrying guns, that depends on other people forever, or to promote an Africa which is confident, peaceful, independent, but cognizant of its huge problems and great values at the same time.	一是维持一个贫穷、病痛、哭泣的非洲—— 手握武器——永远依赖着他人， 或是推动一个更加自信、 和平、独立，但同时能够认识到它自身面临的巨大问题和 巨大价值的非洲。
I am for the second option, and I'm sure many of you are.	我支持第二种选择，而且我确信我们大多数人是这样想的。
And the key is to promote a positive African attitude towards Africa.	关键是推动起一个对非洲更加积极的非洲精神。
That's because we Africans concentrate -- I am from Ethiopia, by the way -- we concentrate too much on how we are seen from elsewhere, or from outside.	因为我们非洲关注于—— 顺便说一下，我来自埃塞俄比亚—— 我们太关注于别人怎么 看我们和理解我们。
I think it's important to promote in a more positive way on how we see ourselves.	我认为重要的是我们应以一个更积极的态度 来看待我们自己。
That's what I call positive African attitude.	这就是我所说的非洲——积极的非洲精神。
So finally, I would like to say, so let's help Africa walk upright and forward, then we all can be proud of our future legacy as a species.	最后，我想说， 就让我们帮助非洲站起来，向前走—— 那时，作为同一个物种，我们都会为我们留给未来的遗产而骄傲。
Thank you.	谢谢。
When we park in a big parking lot, how do we remember where we parked our car?	当我们在大型停车场停车后， 如何回忆起将车停在了哪个车位呢？
Here's the problem facing Homer.	这就是现在困扰荷马的问题。
And we're going to try to understand what's happening in his brain.	接下来我们将尝试了解 此时他脑中正开展何种"运动"。
So we'll start with the hippocampus, shown in yellow, which is the organ of memory.	我们先着眼于大脑海马区，即黄色的区域 这是我们的记忆器官。
If you have damage there, like in Alzheimer's, you can't remember things including where you parked your car.	如果海马区出现损伤,像老年痴呆症患者一样, 你将丧失记忆力，乃至记不起将车停在了何处。
It's named after Latin for "seahorse," which it resembles.	hippocampus这个词源自拉丁语，有"海马"之意 因为脑中海马区的形状看上去有点像"海马"。
And like the rest of the brain, it's made of neurons.	海马区和大脑其它区域的组成相似，都由神经元构成。
So the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it.	人的大脑 由大约一千亿个神经元细胞组成。
And the neurons communicate with each other by sending little pulses or spikes of electricity via connections to each other.	每个神经元细胞之间通过一些连接中介 互相发送小的电脉冲或者尖峰电压 来进行"交流"。
The hippocampus is formed of two sheets of cells, which are very densely interconnected.	海马区由两层片状的细胞群构成， 这两层细胞群紧密相连。
And scientists have begun to understand how spatial memory works by recording from individual neurons in rats or mice while they forage or explore an environment looking for food.	科学家们通过记录 老鼠在某环境中搜罗食物时 其脑中单个神经元细胞的反应 来了解 "空间记忆"的工作原理 与工作机制。
So we're going to imagine we're recording from a single neuron in the hippocampus of this rat here.	现在想象一下，我们正在为这只老鼠的海马区中的 一个神经元细胞"录像"。
And when it fires a little spike of electricity, there's going to be a red dot and a click.	每当这个细胞发出小型尖峰电压， 随后会出现一个红点以及咔哒的一声。
So what we see is that this neuron knows whenever the rat has gone into one particular place in its environment.	我们可以看出 每当老鼠进入环境中某一特定位置， 这个神经元细胞便会有反应。
And it signals to the rest of the brain by sending a little electrical spike.	然后这个细胞再通过小型尖峰电压 将以上信息传递给大脑的其它区域。
So we could show the firing rate of that neuron as a function of the animal's location.	这么一来，我们可以凭借这个细胞发送信号的频率 推知老鼠经过的相应位置。
And if we record from lots of different neurons, we'll see that different neurons fire when the animal goes in different parts of its environment, like in this square box shown here.	倘若我们记录的是很多不同的神经元细胞， 就会发现当老鼠处于不同的位置上时， 不同的神经元细胞会产生各自的电信号， 正如我们在这些方形中看到的那样。
So together they form a map for the rest of the brain, telling the brain continually, "Where am I now within my environment?"	这些信号为大脑中的其它区域 勾勒出一张地图， 持续地向大脑指示出， "我现在位于环境中的哪个具体点上？"
Place cells are also being recorded in humans.	我们也记录人脑中的"定位神经元细胞"。
So epilepsy patients sometimes need the electrical activity in their brain monitoring.	癫痫病患者有时需要监测 他们的脑电活动情况。
And some of these patients played a video game where they drive around a small town.	一些患者玩一种电子游戏， 游戏中他们在一个小镇上自由开车。
And place cells in their hippocampi would fire, become active, start sending electrical impulses whenever they drove through a particular location in that town.	然后当他们驱车驶过镇上的某一处时， 他们大脑海马区中的"定位神经元细胞" 便会被激活，发出信号。
So how does a place cell know where the rat or person is within its environment?	那么这"定位细胞" 是怎么知道老鼠或人处于某个位置的呢？
Well these two cells here show us that the boundaries of the environment are particularly important.	这里有两个神经元细胞， 它们告诉我们，在定位时 环境的边界是至关重要的。
So the one on the top likes to fire sort of midway between the walls of the box that their rat's in.	上面的这个细胞倾向于 在老鼠向盒子中部走去时 产生信号。
And when you expand the box, the firing location expands.	因此当你将盒子扩大，相应的信号活跃区也随之扩大。
The one below likes to fire whenever there's a wall close by to the south.	下面的这个喜欢在 老鼠紧邻南面屏障时作出反应。
And if you put another wall inside the box, then the cell fires in both place wherever there's a wall to the south as the animal explores around in its box.	因此当你在盒中放入另一屏障时， 不论老鼠在盒中何处， 只要它的南面有屏障， 该细胞中的相应位置便会同时产生信号。
So this predicts that sensing the distances and directions of boundaries around you -- extended buildings and so on -- is particularly important for the hippocampus.	这表明 了解到达边界——比如周边的建筑物等 需要的距离和方向 对于海马区的"工作"而言至关重要。
And indeed, on the inputs to the hippocampus, cells are found which project into the hippocampus, which do respond exactly to detecting boundaries or edges at particular distances and directions from the rat or mouse as it's exploring around.	而且确实，在老鼠搜罗环境时， 我们在海马区的输入信号中， 检测到能对 距环境边界的特定距离 与方向作出 精确感应的 神经元细胞。
So the cell on the left, you can see, it fires whenever the animal gets near to a wall or a boundary to the east, whether it's the edge or the wall of a square box or the circular wall of the circular box or even the drop at the edge of a table, which the animals are running around.	这里左边的细胞，你可以看出， 当老鼠向东靠近边界或屏障时， 该细胞都会作出反应， 不论这边界是一个方盒的边 还是一个圆柱盒的边 甚至是老鼠绕着转的桌布的垂帘。
And the cell on the right there fires whenever there's a boundary to the south, whether it's the drop at the edge of the table or a wall or even the gap between two tables that are pulled apart.	而右面的细胞 则是在老鼠南面出现边界时响应， 不论这边界是桌布的垂帘还是一堵墙 甚至是两个被隔开的桌子之间的间隙。
So that's one way in which we think place cells determine where the animal is as it's exploring around.	以上是我们所推测的一种 "定位细胞"给动物定位的方式。
We can also test where we think objects are, like this goal flag, in simple environments -- or indeed, where your car would be.	我们也可检测，人类在简单环境中， 是怎样给——诸如这面旗这样的物体定位的 或者干脆——把这物体想成你的车。
So we can have people explore an environment and see the location they have to remember.	我们先让人们熟悉一下环境， 同时记下物体所在的位置。
And then, if we put them back in the environment, generally they're quite good at putting a marker down where they thought that flag or their car was.	接着，再让他们回到那个环境， 通常他们都能根据记忆 准确无误地标出物体所在的位置。
But on some trials, we could change the shape and size of the environment like we did with the place cell.	但在一些试验中， 我们会改变环境的形状和尺度， 正如我们在"定位细胞"实验中所做的那样。
In that case, we can see how where they think the flag had been changes as a function of how you change the shape and size of the environment.	如此，我们可以通过研究 实验者改变环境的形状和尺度， 来了解旗帜发生了怎样的位移
And what you see, for example, if the flag was where that cross was in a small square environment, and then if you ask people where it was, but you've made the environment bigger, where they think the flag had been stretches out in exactly the same way that the place cell firing stretched out.	比如现在你所看到的， 假设这面旗帜在如图中小四方形内的"×"的位置， 然后接着你问人们小旗在哪， 但实际上你已经将总环境的尺度扩大了， 结果他们所认为的旗所在的位置 也相应地向外扩张， 而这扩张的模式和"定位细胞"的一模一样。
It's as if you remember where the flag was by storing the pattern of firing across all of your place cells at that location, and then you can get back to that location by moving around so that you best match the current pattern of firing of your place cells with that stored pattern.	这就好像你是通过存储被某一 特定位置所激发的"定位细胞"产生的信号模式 来记忆小旗的位置的， 接着当你回到那个地点的时候， 通过四处打量， 便可以将你当前脑中"定位细胞"的信号模式 与之前的模式进行匹配。
That guides you back to the location that you want to remember.	这个过程便可让你回到"老地方"。
But we also know where we are through movement.	我们也能通过位移来给自己定位。
So if we take some outbound path -- perhaps we park and we wander off -- we know because our own movements, which we can integrate over this path roughly what the heading direction is to go back.	因此当我们外出时—— 或许是我们停车后下来随便走走—— 我们可以给自己定位，因为我们 可以粗略地将自己的运动路线 与大体的返回方向进行整合。
And place cells also get this kind of path integration input from a kind of cell called a grid cell.	"定位细胞"也能从一种叫做"网状细胞"的细胞那儿 获得此类线路整合的信息。
Now grid cells are found, again, on the inputs to the hippocampus, and they're a bit like place cells.	目前在向海马区的信号输入中 又发现了"网状细胞"， 它们与"定位细胞"有点类似。
But now as the rat explores around, each individual cell fires in a whole array of different locations which are laid out across the environment in an amazingly regular triangular grid.	随着老鼠的"四处探索"， 每一个神经元细胞 被大量各种位置所激发的信号 组合在一起，贯穿整个环境 构成一个令人惊叹的规整的三角网格。
And if you record from several grid cells -- shown here in different colors -- each one has a grid-like firing pattern across the environment, and each cell's grid-like firing pattern is shifted slightly relative to the other cells.	倘若你对一系列"网状细胞"进行记录—— 这里以不同的颜色区分—— 每一个细胞发出的信号都能形成网状，遍及整个环境， 而且每一个细胞的网状信号集的位置都与其他细胞 有一定偏差。
So the red one fires on this grid and the green one on this one and the blue on on this one.	因此红色标注的细胞信号集合在这个网格上， 绿色的是这个，而蓝色的是这个。
So together, it's as if the rat can put a virtual grid of firing locations across its environment -- a bit like the latitude and longitude lines that you'd find on a map, but using triangles.	因此综合来看，这就好像老鼠可以 在它所到达的环境中建立一个 虚拟的位置信号网—— 这就有点像你在地图上所看到的经线和纬线， 只不过要将线替换成"三角形"。
And as it moves around, the electrical activity can pass from one of these cells to the next cell to keep track of where it is, so that it can use its own movements to know where it is in its environment.	当老鼠移动的时候， 这些电信号 能通过这些细胞传递给下一个神经元细胞 从而为老鼠定位， 这样老鼠就能在运动时 知道自己身在何处。
Do people have grid cells?	那么人类是否有"网状细胞"呢？
Well because all of the grid-like firing patterns have the same axes of symmetry, the same orientations of grid, shown in orange here, it means that the net activity of all of the grid cells in a particular part of the brain should change according to whether we're running along these six directions or running along one of the six directions in between.	因为所有的网状信号集合体 都有相同的对称轴，以及 相同的网格朝向，这里以橘红色标识， 这就意味着大脑中特定部位 的所有网状细胞的联网行为 的变化应该取决于 我们是在向着这六个方向运动还是 沿着六个方向之间所夹的某一个方向运动。
So we can put people in an MRI scanner and have them do a little video game like the one I showed you and look for this signal.	我们可以为人们做核磁共振扫描， 与此同时让他们玩一个小型电子游戏， 还是之前所说的那个游戏， 然后来看看当时的信号。
And indeed, you do see it in the human entorhinal cortex, which is the same part of the brain that you see grid cells in rats.	啊哈没错，你在人脑中的内嗅皮层上看到了网状细胞， 而它们出现的位置和老鼠的网状细胞在大脑中所出现的位置一样。
So back to Homer.	现在我们回头看看荷马。
He's probably remembering where his car was in terms of the distances and directions to extended buildings and boundaries around the location where he parked.	他可能凭借与周边建筑 以及四周边界的 相对距离和方向来回忆 他的车停在哪儿。
And that would be represented by the firing of boundary-detecting cells.	而那将由专门"检测边界"的 神经元细胞发出的信号来执行。
He's also remembering the path he took out of the car park, which would be represented in the firing of grid cells.	他可能也记得自己是怎么从停车场走出来的， 而这就有赖于网状细胞发出信号了。
Now both of these kinds of cells can make the place cells fire.	这两种类型的神经元细胞 都可以激活"定位细胞"。
And he can return to the location where he parked by moving so as to find where it is that best matches the firing pattern of the place cells in his brain currently with the stored pattern where he parked his car.	因此荷马成功折返的方法 便是在走动中寻求与他之前 停车时脑中所建立的 信号集样式最为匹配的 一个脑中即时形成的信号集样式。
And that guides him back to that location irrespective of visual cues like whether his car's actually there.	而那就能将他领回"老地方"了， 这个过程与最终的目标视物无关 不论他的车是否还在那儿他都能找到停车点。
Maybe it's been towed.	或许车已经被拖走了，
But he knows where it was, so he knows to go and get it.	但他仍然知道车原来停在哪，因此他会回到原位去取车。
So beyond spatial memory, if we look for this grid-like firing pattern throughout the whole brain, we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks, like remembering the last time you went to a wedding, for example.	撇开"空间记忆力"而言， 倘若我们单独观察这种网状信号集 在整个大脑中的活动情况， 就会发现这种信号形式分布广泛， 每当我们需要回忆一些自己过去的经历时 这种网状的信号形式就会活跃起来， 譬如，当你试图回忆上次参加婚礼的情况时
So it may be that the neural mechanisms for representing the space around us are also used for generating visual imagery so that we can recreate the spatial scene, at least, of the events that have happened to us when we want to imagine them.	因此有可能，神经元细胞 再现空间的功能 也参与视觉画面的呈现 这样当我们试图回忆一个曾经置身其中的场面时， 至少可以借助想象而勾勒出整个场景。
So if this was happening, your memories could start by place cells activating each other via these dense interconnections and then reactivating boundary cells to create the spatial structure of the scene around your viewpoint.	倘若事实果真如此， 记忆的形成就开始于："定位细胞"通过这些缜密的连结 相互激活 然后"边界感应细胞"被再次激活 从而形成我们视点周围的场景的 空间格局。
And grid cells could move this viewpoint through that space.	网状细胞可以使视点穿透那个空间。
Another kind of cell, head direction cells, which I didn't mention yet, they fire like a compass according to which way you're facing.	而另一种"方位细胞"， 我之前没有提到它， 它们像指南针一样，都是根据你的朝向来作出反应的。
They could define the viewing direction from which you want to generate an image for your visual imagery, so you can imagine what happened when you were at this wedding, for example.	它们可以明确 你需要在脑中形成哪个方位的图像， 就拿回忆婚礼情景来说，以上过程就能让你回想起那一切。
So this is just one example of a new era really in cognitive neuroscience where we're beginning to understand psychological processes like how you remember or imagine or even think in terms of the actions of the billions of individual neurons that make up our brains.	好了，以上就是在 认知神经科学领域 所开辟的新纪元， 在这个领域中， 我们开始尝试从大脑中数以亿计的 单个神经元细胞的行为出发， 来了解 人类心理活动产生的过程。比如人们是如何记忆、想象甚至思考的
Thank you very much.	谢谢各位。
Isadora Duncan -- -- crazy, long-legged woman from San Francisco, got tired of this country, and she wanted to get out.	艾莎道拉·邓肯 —— 一位来自旧金山的疯狂的长腿女人， 对自己的国家感到了厌倦，打算离开。
Isadora was famous somewhere around 1908 for putting up a blue curtain, and she would stand with her hands over her solar plexus and she would wait, and she would wait, and then, she would move.	艾莎道拉在1908年的一次演出中而出名 她竖起一块蓝幕， 然后站在幕前 双手放在心口， 然后她等待着， 等待着， 然后，她开始翩翩起舞。
Josh and I and Somi call this piece "The Red Circle and the Blue Curtain."	乔希、绍米和我将这一部分舞蹈取名为 "红毯与蓝幕"
Red circle.	红毯。 （译注：指地板上的TED红色圆形地毯）
Blue curtain.	蓝幕。
But, this is not the beginning of the 20th century.	但是 现在已经不是20世纪初。
This is a morning in Vancouver in 2015.	现在是2015年在温哥华的 某个早晨，
Come on, Josh!	来吧，乔希！
Go!	走起！
Are we there yet?	我们尽兴了么？
I don't think so.	我不这么认为。
Hey, yeah!	嘿！耶！
What time is it?	现在什么时间？
Where are we?	我们到哪了？
Josh.	乔希。
Somi.	绍米。
Bill T.	比尔。
Josh.	乔希。
Somi.	绍米。
Bill T.	比尔。
Yeah, yeah!	耶，耶！
What I thought I would do is I would start with a simple request.	我原本想 以一个简单的请求开场。
I'd like all of you to pause for a moment, you wretched weaklings, and take stock of your miserable existence.	我请求在座的各位 思考片刻， 你们这群可悲的懦夫， 扪心自问，审视一下自身可怜的存在。
Now that was the advice that St. Benedict gave his rather startled followers in the fifth century.	其实这正是 5世纪时圣本笃给信众的建议， 可以想见，当时他们必定相当惊诧。
It was the advice that I decided to follow myself when I turned 40.	而在我40岁的时候 我也决定采纳并实施这个建议。
Up until that moment, I had been that classic corporate warrior -- I was eating too much, I was drinking too much, I was working too hard and I was neglecting the family.	在那之前，我绝对是个典型的业务精英—— 我吃的太多，喝得太多， 工作太努力， 我忽视了自己的家庭。
And I decided that I would try and turn my life around.	于是我决定 试着改变我的生活。
In particular, I decided I would try to address the thorny issue of work-life balance.	而且我决定 我要尝试处理一个棘手的问题： 即工作与生活的平衡。
So I stepped back from the workforce, and I spent a year at home with my wife and four young children.	于是我递交辞呈， 赋闲在家， 与妻子和四个儿子相处了一年。
But all I learned about work-life balance from that year was that I found it quite easy to balance work and life when I didn't have any work.	但是在那一年中 关于工作与生活平衡这个问题，我唯一的收获是： 如果我不工作， 这个问题 就会迎刃而解。
Not a very useful skill, especially when the money runs out.	这的确不怎么管用， 尤其是缺钱的时候。
So I went back to work, and I've spent these seven years since struggling with, studying and writing about work-life balance.	所以我回到工作岗位， 七年以来 我的挣扎，学习 与写作都围绕着工作与生活的平衡这个主题。
And I have four observations I'd like to share with you today.	今天我想跟各位分享 四点心得。
The first is: if society's to make any progress on this issue, we need an honest debate.	第一， 如果在这一问题上想要获得实质性的进展， 那么我们需要一个诚恳的探讨。
But the trouble is so many people talk so much rubbish about work-life balance.	但问题是 在这一问题上， 人们大多沉浸在毫无意义的争论之中。
All the discussions about flexi-time or dress-down Fridays or paternity leave only serve to mask the core issue, which is that certain job and career choices are fundamentally incompatible with being meaningfully engaged on a day-to-day basis with a young family.	无论是弹性时间 还是星期五的休闲装政策 亦或是育儿假， 这些都只是进一步掩盖了核心问题， 即 某些职业和某些职业选择 从根本上讲就与 每天与自己的家庭 亲密相处 这一生活方式水火不容。
Now the first step in solving any problem is acknowledging the reality of the situation you're in.	要解决任何问题， 都必须首先认清自己所处的境况。
And the reality of the society that we're in is there are thousands and thousands of people out there leading lives of quiet, screaming desperation, where they work long, hard hours at jobs they hate to enable them to buy things they don't need to impress people they don't like.	而现实社会中的情况是 成千上万的 人们 都在无声的绝望中煎熬。 他们夜以继日的 从事他们痛恨的职业 目的只是为了购买无用的商品 以博得无关痛痒的邻人的艳羡。
It's my contention that going to work on Friday in jeans and [a] T-shirt isn't really getting to the nub of the issue.	我的观点是，星期五穿牛仔体恤 并不能解决关键问题。
The second observation I'd like to make is we need to face the truth that governments and corporations aren't going to solve this issue for us.	我想分享的第二点心得是 我们必须面对现实： 政府和公司 不会为我们解决这一问题。
We should stop looking outside.	我们不能再寻找外援，
It's up to us as individuals to take control and responsibility for the type of lives that we want to lead.	而应该作为个人 承担起掌控 自己生活轨迹的重任。
If you don't design your life, someone else will design it for you, and you may just not like their idea of balance.	如果你不规划自己的生活， 那么别人就会为你规划， 而他们对于平衡的处理 你往往并不认同。
It's particularly important -- this isn't on the World Wide Web, is it? I'm about to get fired -- it's particularly important that you never put the quality of your life in the hands of a commercial corporation.	最重要的是—— 这东西不会传到互联网上吧，要不然我可要被解雇了—— 最重要的是 你绝不能让商业公司 来掌控你生活的质量。
Now I'm not talking here just about the bad companies -- the "abattoirs of the human soul," as I call them.	我指的并不仅仅是那些糟糕的公司—— 我把那些公司叫做人类灵魂的屠宰场。
I'm talking about all companies.	我指的是所有的公司。
Because commercial companies are inherently designed to get as much out of you [as] they can get away with.	因为商业公司 本质上就是为了 尽可能多的榨取你的价值 而同时尽量逃避责任。
It's in their nature; it's in their DNA; it's what they do -- even the good, well-intentioned companies.	这是深植于商业公司之中的基因。 它们以此立足—— 包括那些好的，有善心的公司。
On the one hand, putting childcare facilities in the workplace is wonderful and enlightened.	一方面， 在工作场所开办儿童保育中心 是个很妙的，具有启发性的好主意。
On the other hand, it's a nightmare -- it just means you spend more time at the bloody office.	另一方面，这同时是个噩梦； 因为这意味着你得在万恶的办公室里耗上更多时间。
We have to be responsible for setting and enforcing the boundaries that we want in our life.	我们自己得担起责任 去设定并强化 我们生活中的各种界限。
The third observation is we have to be careful with the time frame that we choose upon which to judge our balance.	第三点是 我们得好好考虑 以什么样的时间单位 来衡量我们试图实现的平衡。
Before I went back to work after my year at home, I sat down and I wrote out a detailed, step-by-step description of the ideal balanced day that I aspired to.	在一年赋闲时 就在我回到工作岗位之前， 我坐下来 细细地 一步一步地勾勒了一幅 我向往的完美一天的 理想蓝图。
And it went like this: wake up well rested after a good night's sleep.	具体如下： 充足的睡眠之后， 精神抖擞的醒来。
Have sex.	做爱。
Walk the dog.	遛狗。
Have breakfast with my wife and children.	与妻儿共进早餐。
Have sex again.	做爱。
Drive the kids to school on the way to the office.	上班的途中送孩子去学校。
Do three hours' work.	工作三小时。
Play a sport with a friend at lunchtime.	午休时和朋友玩玩体育。
Do another three hours' work.	再工作三小时。
Meet some mates in the pub for an early evening drink.	下午和老伙计们在酒吧喝两杯。
Drive home for dinner with my wife and kids.	回家， 与妻儿共进晚餐。
Meditate for half an hour.	花半个小时静修思考。
Have sex.	做爱。
Walk the dog. Have sex again.	遛狗。做爱。
Go to bed.	上床睡觉。
How often do you think I have that day?	你觉得我多久能享受如此的一天？
We need to be realistic.	我们当然要实际一些。
You can't do it all in one day.	你不可能在一天内实现这一切。
We need to elongate the time frame upon which we judge the balance in our life, but we need to elongate it without falling into the trap of the "I'll have a life when I retire, when my kids have left home, when my wife has divorced me, my health is failing, I've got no mates or interests left."	我们得把时间单位拉长 来衡量我们期望的平衡， 但是这一拉长也不是没有限度的 比如，你最好别说： "我会享受生活的，当我退休了， 当子女也都独立， 当妻子已弃我而去，当我的身体大不如前， 当我已没有朋友，也没有任何兴趣爱好。"
A day is too short; "after I retire" is too long.	一天太短，退休又太长。
There's got to be a middle way.	肯定会有折中的办法。
A fourth observation: We need to approach balance in a balanced way.	第四点心得： 要实现平衡， 我们得采取"平衡"的办法。
A friend came to see me last year -- and she doesn't mind me telling this story -- a friend came to see me last year and said, "Nigel, I've read your book.	去年我有个朋友来找我—— 她不介意我公开这个故事——去年她来我这儿， 她说："奈吉尔，我看了你的书。
And I realize that my life is completely out of balance.	我意识到我的生活完全没有平衡可言。
It's totally dominated by work.	它完全被无休止的工作占据。
I work 10 hours a day; I commute two hours a day.	我每天工作10小时，路上就要花2小时。
All of my relationships have failed.	我的人际关系总是失败。
There's nothing in my life apart from my work.	在我生活中 除了工作，没有别的。
So I've decided to get a grip and sort it out.	所以我决定得振作起来改观我的生活。
So I joined a gym."	于是我加入了健身俱乐部。"
Now I don't mean to mock, but being a fit 10-hour-a-day office rat isn't more balanced; it's more fit.	我不是要嘲笑她， 但是一个"健康"的每天工作10小时的办公室职员 并不会让她更"平衡"，而只能更"健康"。
Lovely though physical exercise may be, there are other parts to life -- there's the intellectual side; there's the emotional side; there's the spiritual side.	健身运动的确是不错， 但生活的含义其实很丰富。 知性生活，情感生活， 精神生活。
And to be balanced, I believe we have to attend to all of those areas -- not just do 50 stomach crunches.	如果想达到平衡， 我觉得我们得 关照以上的各个方面—— 仅仅50个仰卧起坐是不够的。
Now that can be daunting.	这可能看起来相当艰巨。
Because people say, "Bloody hell mate, I haven't got time to get fit.	人们会说："拜托伙计，我连锻炼的时间都没有，
You want me to go to church and call my mother."	你却要我去教堂、给老妈打电话。"
And I understand.	我很理解。
I truly understand how that can be daunting.	我真的很理解，对人们来说这的确挺艰巨。
But an incident that happened a couple of years ago gave me a new perspective.	但两年前有件小事 却给了我一个崭新的视角。
My wife, who is somewhere in the audience today, called me up at the office and said, "Nigel, you need to pick our youngest son" -- Harry -- "up from school."	我妻子就坐在下面 一天她给我的办公室打电话说 "奈吉尔，你得去学校 接我们的小儿子哈里。"
Because she had to be somewhere else with the other three children for that evening.	因为那天晚上她和其他三个孩子在一起。
So I left work an hour early that afternoon and picked Harry up at the school gates.	于是那天下午我提前一小时下班 在校门口接到哈里。
We walked down to the local park, messed around on the swings, played some silly games.	我们去了公园， 在秋千上闹了一阵，做了些傻傻的游戏。
I then walked him up the hill to the local cafe, and we shared a pizza for two, then walked down the hill to our home, and I gave him his bath and put him in his Batman pajamas.	然后我带他上了一座小山到了当地的一家咖啡馆， 我们点了茶和比萨， 吃完就下山回家， 我给他洗了个澡， 给他穿上蝙蝠侠睡衣。
I then read him a chapter of Roald Dahl's "James and the Giant Peach."	然后我给他读了一章 Roald Dahl的《詹姆斯与飞天巨桃》。
I then put him to bed, tucked him in, gave him a kiss on his forehead and said, "Goodnight, mate," and walked out of his bedroom.	然后我铺好床，安顿好他， 吻了他的额头，说了声"晚安，伙计。" 然后走出他的卧室。
As I was walking out of his bedroom, he said, "Dad?" I went, "Yes, mate?"	正当我走到门口的时候， 他叫了声老爸。"什么事，伙计？"
He went, "Dad, this has been the best day of my life, ever."	他说，"老爸，这是我一生中 最棒的一天，最棒的。"
I hadn't done anything, hadn't taken him to Disney World or bought him a Playstation.	其实我什么也没做。 我没带他去迪斯尼乐园，也没给他买游戏机。
Now my point is the small things matter.	我想说的是， 小事并非无关紧要。
Being more balanced doesn't mean dramatic upheaval in your life.	在生活中实现平衡 并不意味着你要大张旗鼓的颠覆你的生活。
With the smallest investment in the right places, you can radically transform the quality of your relationships and the quality of your life.	在适当的地方 做些小小的投资， 你就能极大地改善你的人际关系 和生活质量。
Moreover, I think, it can transform society.	不仅如此，我认为 这还能改变整个社会。
Because if enough people do it, we can change society's definition of success away from the moronically simplistic notion that the person with the most money when he dies wins, to a more thoughtful and balanced definition of what a life well lived looks like.	因为，如果很多人都如此生活， 那么我们就可以重新对社会上的所谓"成功"进行定义： 成功不再是以死后财产的多少 来愚蠢地衡量； 成功应该有一个更具平衡性和思想性的定义， 即一个美好的生活的实现。
And that, I think, is an idea worth spreading.	我认为 这的确是一个值得与众人分享的点子。
I'm going to speak today about the relationship between science and human values.	今日我要讨论科学和人类价值观 之间的关系
Now, it's generally understood that questions of morality -- questions of good and evil and right and wrong -- are questions about which science officially has no opinion.	我们一般认为 有关道德问题 善恶对错的概念 是科学所不能解决和参与讨论的
It's thought that science can help us get what we value, but it can never tell us what we ought to value.	人们认为科学可以帮助我们 得到我们所想要的 却永远无法告诉我们什么是重要的
And, consequently, most people -- I think most people probably here -- think that science will never answer the most important questions in human life: questions like, "What is worth living for?"	于是大部分的人，甚至今日坐在这里的各位 认为科学永远无法回答 人类生命中的重要问题 像是"我们为了什么活着？"
"What is worth dying for?"	"我们应该为什么牺牲？"
"What constitutes a good life?"	"什么样的生活，是一个幸福的生活？"
So, I'm going to argue that this is an illusion -- that the separation between science and human values is an illusion -- and actually quite a dangerous one at this point in human history.	我想告诉大家 把科学和人类价值观做分隔 是一种人为假象 是一个非常危险的假象 尤其是在我们的今日社会
Now, it's often said that science cannot give us a foundation for morality and human values, because science deals with facts, and facts and values seem to belong to different spheres.	人们常说科学 不能作为道德和价值观的基础 因为科学讲求实证 而事实和价值似乎是两种不同层次的事
It's often thought that there's no description of the way the world is that can tell us how the world ought to be.	人们认为，就算把世界的模样 描绘出来 也不能带我们走到乌托邦
But I think this is quite clearly untrue.	但我认为这很明显是错误的
Values are a certain kind of fact.	价值自然是一种实证
They are facts about the well-being of conscious creatures.	是人类如何可以获得幸福生活的实证
Why is it that we don't have ethical obligations toward rocks?	为什么我们对石头没有任何道德要求？
Why don't we feel compassion for rocks?	为什么我们对石头没有仁爱之情？
It's because we don't think rocks can suffer. And if we're more concerned about our fellow primates than we are about insects, as indeed we are, it's because we think they're exposed to a greater range of potential happiness and suffering.	因为我们不认为石头会受折磨 如果和昆虫做比较 我们比较关心我们自己的物种 那是因为我们认为我们比昆虫 能感受到更大程度的快乐或痛苦
Now, the crucial thing to notice here is that this is a factual claim: This is something that we could be right or wrong about. And if we have misconstrued the relationship between biological complexity and the possibilities of experience well then we could be wrong about the inner lives of insects.	其中的意义是 这个说法是有实证的 这中间是有对错的 如果我们在生物复杂性和知觉体验的关系上 做出了错误的推估 那代表我们有可能错估了昆虫的内心生活
And there's no notion, no version of human morality and human values that I've ever come across that is not at some point reducible to a concern about conscious experience and its possible changes.	但是我发觉 从没有一种道德 和价值观 是和人类的感知体验 和尝试改变这感知体验的可能性 无关的
Even if you get your values from religion, even if you think that good and evil ultimately relate to conditions after death -- either to an eternity of happiness with God or an eternity of suffering in hell -- you are still concerned about consciousness and its changes.	就算你的价值观来自宗教 就算你认为善恶 和死后的结果有关联 永远和神在快乐的国度里逍遥 或是永远在地狱之火中燃烧 这仍然两种不同的感知体验有关
And to say that such changes can persist after death is itself a factual claim, which, of course, may or may not be true.	认为这些体验会一直持续到死后的世界 也是在追求一种实证 虽然谁也不知道死后的世界会如何
Now, to speak about the conditions of well-being in this life, for human beings, we know that there is a continuum of such facts.	谈到幸福生活的基础 身为人类，在此生 我们知道有些事实一直存在
We know that it's possible to live in a failed state, where everything that can go wrong does go wrong -- where mothers cannot feed their children, where strangers cannot find the basis for peaceful collaboration, where people are murdered indiscriminately.	我们知道你有可能会住在一个失序的国家 所有东西都有可能出错 母亲无法喂养她们的孩子 人们找不到一个能保障和平的共识 人们被不分青红地谋杀
And we know that it's possible to move along this continuum towards something quite a bit more idyllic, to a place where a conference like this is even conceivable.	我们知道我们可以解决这些持续已久的问题 走向一个较为理想的状况 像我们现在这样，齐聚一堂，和平讨论
And we know -- we know -- that there are right and wrong answers to how to move in this space.	我们知道，清楚知道 想要达到这样的境界 有对的，也有错误的方法
Would adding cholera to the water be a good idea?	在水中加入霍乱病毒是对的吗？
Probably not.	大概不是
Would it be a good idea for everyone to believe in the evil eye, so that when bad things happened to them they immediately blame their neighbors? Probably not.	每个人都相信邪恶之眼的魔力 于是当某些不幸事件发生 他们马上就开始怪罪他们的邻舍？大概也不是
There are truths to be known about how human communities flourish, whether or not we understand these truths.	我们应该去理解 人类社群迈向繁荣的方法 无论我们现在能不能理解
And morality relates to these truths.	或把这些事实和道德做联结
So, in talking about values we are talking about facts.	当我们讨论价值，我们就是在讨论事实
Now, of course our situation in the world can be understood at many levels -- from the level of the genome on up to the level of economic systems and political arrangements.	世界的现况可以用很多不同层次来看 从染色体的层次 一直到经济体系 和政治协议的层次
But if we're going to talk about human well-being we are, of necessity, talking about the human brain.	但如果我们回去思考人类幸福的议题 我们必须谈到人类的大脑
Because we know that our experience of the world and of ourselves within it is realized in the brain -- whatever happens after death.	因为我们知道我们对世界的看法、我们的体验和感知 都是由大脑建构的 无论死后会怎样
Even if the suicide bomber does get 72 virgins in the afterlife, in this life, his personality -- his rather unfortunate personality -- is the product of his brain.	就算背着炸弹自杀死后能得到72个处女 在此生，他的人格 这令人遗憾的人格 也是由他的大脑所产出
So the contributions of culture -- if culture changes us, as indeed it does, it changes us by changing our brains.	于是，文化的贡献是 － 是因为文化会改变我们的想法 也就是改变我们大脑的思考模式
And so therefore whatever cultural variation there is in how human beings flourish can, at least in principle, be understood in the context of a maturing science of the mind -- neuroscience, psychology, etc.	于是不管有多少不同文化 对人类的幸福有多少不同想法 都可以原则性地 以成熟的闹内科学作为理解的办法 神经科学、心理学等等
So, what I'm arguing is that value's reduced to facts -- to facts about the conscious experience of conscious beings.	我想说的是 价值观可以以事实 有关人类感知体验的事实 作为准则
And we can therefore visualize a space of possible changes in the experience of these beings.	我们才有可能想象在某个情况下 来改变这些人的体验
And I think of this as kind of a moral landscape, with peaks and valleys that correspond to differences in the well-being of conscious creatures, both personal and collective.	这就像一片道德风景 有不同的山巅和峡谷 像是人类对于幸福生活的不同感知 无论是个人或群体的
And one thing to notice is that perhaps there are states of human well-being that we rarely access, that few people access.	我们该注意的是 或许有个人类幸福的所在 是我们从来没有去过的，很少人能达到的体验
And these await our discovery.	正在等待我们去发掘
Perhaps some of these states can be appropriately called mystical or spiritual.	或许这些体验就是我们所说的 神秘或灵性的体验
Perhaps there are other states that we can't access because of how our minds are structured but other minds possibly could access them.	或许有些是我们根本无法体验的 因为我们的大脑有自己的回路 但其它人却有可能可以到达
Now, let me be clear about what I'm not saying. I'm not saying that science is guaranteed to map this space, or that we will have scientific answers to every conceivable moral question.	我必须澄清，我并不是说 科学可以完全地为我们画出这份幸福地图 或是科学可以回答所有的 道德争议
I don't think, for instance, that you will one day consult a supercomputer to learn whether you should have a second child, or whether we should bomb Iran's nuclear facilities, or whether you can deduct the full cost of TED as a business expense.	举例来说，我并不认为 某天我们会和电脑商量我们是不是该生第二胎 或是我们是不是应该轰炸伊朗的核子设备 或是参加TED演讲的经费是不是可以向公司报账
But if questions affect human well-being then they do have answers, whether or not we can find them.	但如果这个问题是影响到人身幸福的 他们是有答案的，无论我们找不着得到
And just admitting this -- just admitting that there are right and wrong answers to the question of how humans flourish -- will change the way we talk about morality, and will change our expectations of human cooperation in the future.	承认吧 当我们尝试解决人类幸福的问题 是可能会有错误答案的 承认这个事实能改变我们讨论道德的方法 也会改变我们在合作共创未来时 所期待的结果
For instance, there are 21 states in our country where corporal punishment in the classroom is legal, where it is legal for a teacher to beat a child with a wooden board, hard, and raising large bruises and blisters and even breaking the skin.	举例来说，在美国还有21个州 在课堂上进行体罚是合法的 老师可以合法的用木板 把孩子打得瘀伤、起水泡、甚至破皮
And hundreds of thousands of children, incidentally, are subjected to this every year.	每年有千百个孩子 都在遭受这样的待遇
The locations of these enlightened districts, I think, will fail to surprise you.	而且我认为，你会很吃惊，这都是些什么省份
We're not talking about Connecticut.	不是康涅狄格州
And the rationale for this behavior is explicitly religious.	宗教往往是这些做法背后的理由
The creator of the universe himself has told us not to spare the rod, lest we spoil the child -- this is in Proverbs 13 and 20, and I believe, 23.	创造宇宙的造物主说 告诉我们不要"不忍用仗" 不然会宠坏孩子 这是《旧约箴言》第13章20，和23节
But we can ask the obvious question: Is it a good idea, generally speaking, to subject children to pain and violence and public humiliation as a way of encouraging healthy emotional development and good behavior?	我们可以问一个简单的问题 以常理判断 让孩子经历这样的痛苦 暴力和在众人面前被羞辱 会带来健康的情绪发展 和良好行为模式吗？
Is there any doubt that this question has an answer, and that it matters?	我们之中有人怀疑 这个问题不但有解答 而且对我们来说很重要？
Now, many of you might worry that the notion of well-being is truly undefined, and seemingly perpetually open to be re-construed.	或许在你们之中，有许多人会担心 这所谓的幸福该如何界定 这似乎没有一定的标准
And so, how therefore can there be an objective notion of well-being?	而且，怎么可能有一种完全客观的 "人身幸福"的标准存在呢？
Well, consider by analogy, the concept of physical health.	如果是这样，难道因为对身体健康的概念
The concept of physical health is undefined.	没有一个真正的定论
As we just heard from Michael Specter, it has changed over the years.	如同 Michael Specter 适才说道，这些概念也会改变
When this statue was carved the average life expectancy was probably 30.	在这个雕像产生的年代 人类的平均寿命是30
It's now around 80 in the developed world.	现在已发展国家的平均寿命是80
There may come a time when we meddle with our genomes in such a way that not being able to run a marathon at age 200 will be considered a profound disability.	也许有一天，因为我们对基因的研究 200岁不能跑马拉松 是一种残疾
People will send you donations when you're in that condition.	如果你有这种状况，人们会捐钱给你
Notice that the fact that the concept of health is open, genuinely open for revision, does not make it vacuous.	我们知道健康的观念会改变 随时都可以重新思考 这不代表这些讨论是毫无意义的
The distinction between a healthy person and a dead one is about as clear and consequential as any we make in science.	一个健康的人和一个死人 之间的差别 在科学或理论里是一样的
Another thing to notice is there may be many peaks on the moral landscape: There may be equivalent ways to thrive; there may be equivalent ways to organize a human society so as to maximize human flourishing.	另外一个该注意的事情是道德地图上虽然有很多山巅 是有可能可以一起努力 一起找出一个管理人类社会的方法 一起找出最大的幸福
Now, why wouldn't this undermine an objective morality?	为什么我们不能将这个 当作客观道德的基础？
Well think of how we talk about food: I would never be tempted to argue to you that there must be one right food to eat.	想象我们讨论食物的方式 我永远不会和你争辩 人类应该有吃的自由
There is clearly a range of materials that constitute healthy food.	一个健康的饮食方式中 有许多不同食物
But there's nevertheless a clear distinction between food and poison.	但从没有人会把食物和毒物 搞错
The fact that there are many right answers to the question, "What is food?"	当我们问"什么是食物？"的时候 有许多正确答案
does not tempt us to say that there are no truths to be known about human nutrition.	并不会阻止我们 去研究营养学，找出更多事实
Many people worry that a universal morality would require moral precepts that admit of no exceptions.	许多人担心 普世道德必须有一种 严厉的基本教义，不允许例外
So, for instance, if it's really wrong to lie, it must always be wrong to lie, and if you can find an exception, well then there's no such thing as moral truth.	比如说，说谎是错误的 说谎永远是错误的 如果你能找到例外的话 这就不是真正的道德
Why would we think this?	为什么我们会这样想
Consider, by analogy, the game of chess.	让我们以国际象棋为例
Now, if you're going to play good chess, a principle like, "Don't lose your Queen," is very good to follow.	如果你想玩一盘漂亮的国际象棋 "别失去你的皇后" 是一个很好的原则
But it clearly admits some exceptions.	但它也有例外
There are moments when losing your Queen is a brilliant thing to do.	在某些时候牺牲皇后是一种很漂亮的打法
There are moments when it is the only good thing you can do.	在某些必要时刻，那是你唯一能做的
And yet, chess is a domain of perfect objectivity.	但国际象棋是一个绝对客观的游戏
The fact that there are exceptions here does not change that at all.	就算在棋局中允许例外 也不会改变这个事实
Now, this brings us to the sorts of moves that people are apt to make in the moral sphere.	在这个道德的场域里 有些事是我们应该做的
Consider the great problem of women's bodies: What to do about them?	想想女性身体政治 我们该怎么做？
Well this is one thing you can do about them: You can cover them up.	有个方法是 你可以把它们盖起来
Now, it is the position, generally speaking, of our intellectual community that while we may not like this, we might think of this as "wrong" in Boston or Palo Alto, who are we to say that the proud denizens of an ancient culture are wrong to force their wives and daughters to live in cloth bags?	普遍来说，我们的学术界是这样想的 虽然我们不喜欢这样 我们觉得这样是错误的 在波士顿或帕羅奧多 但我们怎么能说 这些古老文化的骄傲后裔 不应该强迫它们的妻子和女儿 住在衣袋里？
And who are we to say, even, that they're wrong to beat them with lengths of steel cable, or throw battery acid in their faces if they decline the privilege of being smothered in this way?	我们怎么能说，他们是错误的 当他们用钢索痛打她们 或是把强酸泼到她们脸上 如果她们拒绝被这样对待？
Well, who are we not to say this?	我们凭什么可以这样说呢？
Who are we to pretend that we know so little about human well-being that we have to be non-judgmental about a practice like this?	我们怎么可以装作 我们完全不了解人类的幸福 或是我们应该对此类行为保持中立？
I'm not talking about voluntary wearing of a veil -- women should be able to wear whatever they want, as far as I'm concerned.	我不是在说那些自发性的蒙头 我认为女人应该想穿什么就穿什么
But what does voluntary mean in a community where, when a girl gets raped, her father's first impulse, rather often, is to murder her out of shame?	但自发性是什么意思？ 在一个女孩被强暴 他的父亲的第一个反应 往往是谋杀她以免羞愧 的这种社会，自发性是什么意思？
Just let that fact detonate in your brain for a minute: Your daughter gets raped, and what you want to do is kill her.	让这些事实在你脑中转一转： 你的女儿被强暴了 你的反应竟然是杀掉她
What are the chances that represents a peak of human flourishing?	请问你真的觉得这应该是 人类幸福的一个可能吗？
Now, to say this is not to say that we have got the perfect solution in our own society.	我这么说，并不是说我们的社会 有最完美的解答
For instance, this is what it's like to go to a newsstand almost anywhere in the civilized world.	举例来说 现在你到任何文明国家的报摊 都可以看到这样的景象
Now, granted, for many men it may require a degree in philosophy to see something wrong with these images.	我必须承认，对大部分的男人来说 可能需要有博士学位才会觉得这有什么不对
But if we are in a reflective mood, we can ask, "Is this the perfect expression of psychological balance with respect to variables like youth and beauty and women's bodies?"	但在我们自省的时候 我们也可以想 "这样的东西会让我们 学习尊重不同女性的 年龄和肉体吗？"
I mean, is this the optimal environment in which to raise our children?	难道我们会希望我们的孩子 生在在这种视觉环境里吗？
Probably not. OK, so perhaps there's some place on the spectrum between these two extremes that represents a place of better balance.	大概不会。 于是在这两个极端中 应该有一个中间点 能带来一种比较健康的平衡
Perhaps there are many such places -- again, given other changes in human culture there may be many peaks on the moral landscape.	或许这个平衡点不止一个 在这个多元的世界里 我们的道德地图应该有许多不同的山峰
But the thing to notice is that there will be many more ways not to be on a peak.	但重点是 这世界上还有许多不是这些山峰的地方
Now the irony, from my perspective, is that the only people who seem to generally agree with me and who think that there are right and wrong answers to moral questions are religious demagogues of one form or another.	在我看来，讽刺的事情是 一般会认同我说法的 那些觉得道德争议是有正确和错误答案的 大都是一些宗教家
And of course they think they have right answers to moral questions because they got these answers from a voice in a whirlwind, not because they made an intelligent analysis of the causes and condition of human and animal well-being.	他们当然会觉得道德争议有正确答案 因为他们已经在神秘之声中听到这些答案了 而不是因为他们理智思考和分析过这些议题 人类和动物的幸福快乐
In fact, the endurance of religion as a lens through which most people view moral questions has separated most moral talk from real questions of human and animal suffering.	事实上，在许久以来 宗教成为人们关注道德的角度 让所有的道德议题 都和人类和动物的痛苦脱钩
This is why we spend our time talking about things like gay marriage and not about genocide or nuclear proliferation or poverty or any other hugely consequential issue.	这就是为什么我们花费精神 讨论同性恋是不是应该结婚 而不是种族灭绝或是核子武器激增 或是贫穷和其它一样严重的议题
But the demagogues are right about one thing: We need a universal conception of human values.	但这些宗教煽动者说对了一件事 我们需要一个普世价值
Now, what stands in the way of this?	为什么这会这么困难？
Well, one thing to notice is that we do something different when talking about morality -- especially secular, academic, scientist types.	其中一件是就是当我们讨论道德 我们这些没有特殊宗教的、学术的、科学家型的人 就会产生差别待遇
When talking about morality we value differences of opinion in a way that we don't in any other area of our lives.	当我们讨论道德，我们就开始尊重不同意见 但我们在其它方面不会这样做
So, for instance the Dalai Lama gets up every morning meditating on compassion, and he thinks that helping other human beings is an integral component of human happiness.	举例来说，达赖喇嘛每天早上起来 思考仁爱精神 他认为帮助其它人类是 带来人类快乐的一部分
On the other hand, we have someone like Ted Bundy; Ted Bundy was very fond of abducting and raping and torturing and killing young women.	另外一边我们有 Ted Bundy 他的兴趣是绑架和强暴 虐待和杀害这些年轻女孩
So, we appear to have a genuine difference of opinion about how to profitably use one's time.	很明显的，这里我们看到每个人对打发时间 都有不同的看法
Most Western intellectuals look at this situation and say, "Well, there's nothing for the Dalai Lama to be really right about -- really right about -- or for Ted Bundy to be really wrong about that admits of a real argument that potentially falls within the purview of science.	大部分的西方学者 看到这个状况 会说，"嗯事实上达赖喇嘛也不是 完全正确，绝对正确 Ted Bundy 也不是绝对错误 这其中没有真正的讨论价值 这是科学范畴的事
He likes chocolate, he likes vanilla.	他喜欢巧克力，他喜欢香草
There's nothing that one should be able to say to the other that should persuade the other."	无论跟他们说什么 都不能改变他们。"
Notice that we don't do this in science.	但我们不会这样讨论科学
On the left you have Edward Witten.	左边这位是爱德华·威滕
He's a string theorist.	他是弦理论的专家
If you ask the smartest physicists around who is the smartest physicist around, in my experience half of them will say Ed Witten.	如果你问你旁边最聪明的物理学家 谁是世界上最聪明的物理学家 我的经验是一半都会说是爱德华·威滕
The other half will tell you they don't like the question.	另外一半会告诉你"她们不喜欢这个问题"
So, what would happen if I showed up at a physics conference and said,"String theory is bogus.	那么，如果我出现在一个物理研讨会 然后说"弦理论是个假货
It doesn't resonate with me. It's not how I chose to view the universe at a small scale.	我对它没有感觉，这不是我选择 的宇宙观
I'm not a fan."	我不是那派的。"
Well, nothing would happen because I'm not a physicist; I don't understand string theory.	什么都不会发生，因为我不是物理学家 我不懂弦理论
I'm the Ted Bundy of string theory.	我是弦理论的 Ted Bundy
I wouldn't want to belong to any string theory club that would have me as a member.	我不想加入任何愿意接受我的弦理论社团
But this is just the point.	这就是重点
Whenever we are talking about facts certain opinions must be excluded.	当我们谈论事实 我们必须排除某些意见
That is what it is to have a domain of expertise.	那就是为什么我们有专业
That is what it is for knowledge to count.	那就是为什么我们应该依靠知识
How have we convinced ourselves that in the moral sphere there is no such thing as moral expertise, or moral talent, or moral genius even?	无论我们怎么和自己说 在道德里没有所谓的道德专家 道德人才，或甚至道德天才
How have we convinced ourselves that every opinion has to count?	为什么我们要说服自己 所有的意见都应该纳入考虑？
How have we convinced ourselves that every culture has a point of view on these subjects worth considering?	我们是怎么说服自己 所有的文化对这些事情都有自己的观点 而我们都应该把他们纳入考量？
Does the Taliban have a point of view on physics that is worth considering? No.	难道塔利班 对物理学的意见 也值得我们考虑吗？不。
How is their ignorance any less obvious on the subject of human well-being?	但他们对幸福的无知 和他们对物理的无知有什么不同？
So, this, I think, is what the world needs now.	现在世界所需要的是
It needs people like ourselves to admit that there are right and wrong answers to questions of human flourishing, and morality relates to that domain of facts.	像我们这样的人们承认 在人类的幸福问题中 是有正确和错误答案的 以及道德 是和事实有直接关联的
It is possible for individuals, and even for whole cultures, to care about the wrong things, which is to say that it's possible for them to have beliefs and desires that reliably lead to needless human suffering.	个人 或整个文化 过分关心某些错误议题是绝对可能的 他们的信仰和想法也绝对有可能 为人类带来 无必要的痛苦
Just admitting this will transform our discourse about morality.	承认这些事实会改变我们讨论道德的方式
We live in a world in which the boundaries between nations mean less and less, and they will one day mean nothing.	在今日世界中 国界的意义不断减弱 有一天国界将没有任何意义
We live in a world filled with destructive technology, and this technology cannot be uninvented; it will always be easier to break things than to fix them.	我们住在一个充满危险科技的世界 这些科技可以不要被发明 因为捣毁一样事情 永远比重建容易
It seems to me, therefore, patently obvious that we can no more respect and tolerate vast differences in notions of human well-being than we can respect or tolerate vast differences in the notions about how disease spreads, or in the safety standards of buildings and airplanes.	我认为，很明显地 我们不能再 尊重和容忍这些 对人类幸福的不同观点 就像我们不会尊重和容忍 传染病的散播 或是建筑和飞机的安全标准
We simply must converge on the answers we give to the most important questions in human life.	我们必须承认，这些问题 能找到解答，才有可能
And to do that, we have to admit that these questions have answers.	回答人类生命中最重要的这些问题。
Thank you very much.	谢谢大家。
So, some combustible material there.	Chris Anderson：让我提出一些争议性的问题
Whether in this audience or people elsewhere in the world, hearing some of this, may well be doing the screaming-with-rage thing, after as well, some of them.	这里有某些人，或现在在世界上别的角落 可能有人听见这个 然后愤怒或尖叫。某些人。
Language seems to be really important here.	语言似乎是个很重要的元素
When you're talking about the veil, you're talking about women dressed in cloth bags.	但你提到面罩的时候 你是说那些把全身蒙住的女人吗
I've lived in the Muslim world, spoken with a lot of Muslim women.	我曾在回教国家居住，和许多回教妇女谈话
And some of them would say something else. They would say, "No, you know, this is a celebration of female specialness, it helps build that and it's a result of the fact that" -- and this is arguably a sophisticated psychological view -- "that male lust is not to be trusted."	她们可能会有别种想法。她们会说 "不，这是对女性的一种礼赞 凸显我们是特别的， 这帮助我们这个，而且是因为那个……" 当然这不是一种非常可靠的心理学论点 "你不能信任男人的情欲"
I mean, can you engage in a conversation with that kind of woman without seeming kind of cultural imperialist?	我们是否可以用一种 不带着文化帝国主义的角度和这些女人讨论这些问题
Sam Harris: Yeah, well I think I tried to broach this in a sentence, watching the clock ticking, but the question is: What is voluntary in a context where men have certain expectations, and you're guaranteed to be treated in a certain way if you don't veil yourself?	Sam Harris：让我一边看着秒针 一边尝试简短回答这个问题 真正的问题是 这真的是她们的个人意愿吗 在男人期待你戴上面罩 如果不戴就必须承受某种后果 的状况下？
And so, if anyone in this room wanted to wear a veil, or a very funny hat, or tattoo their face -- I think we should be free to voluntarily do whatever we want, but we have to be honest about the constraints that these women are placed under.	如果在这个房间里 有任何人想要戴面罩 一个非常可笑的帽子，或是在脸上刺青 我想每个人应该做我们想做的，在自愿的情况下 但我们必须诚实面对 这些女人的处境
And so I think we shouldn't be so eager to always take their word for it, especially when it's 120 degrees out and you're wearing a full burqa.	我认为我们不应该太快地 接受她们的说法 尤其在120度高温 而你竟然必须蒙住全身的状况下
A lot of people want to believe in this concept of moral progress.	许多人想要相信 道德进步的这个概念
But can you reconcile that?	但是这有可能达到和谐吗？
I think I understood you to say that you could reconcile that with a world that doesn't become one dimensional, where we all have to think the same.	我想我了解你所说的 不要让世界变得只有一种道德 也不需要大家都只有一种想法
Paint your picture of what rolling the clock 50 years forward, 100 years forward, how you would like to think of the world, balancing moral progress with richness.	你可以告诉我们 如果我们快转到50年后 100年后，你希望我们的世界 能如何在道德进步和多元文化中 找到平衡
SH: Well, I think once you admit that we are on the path toward understanding our minds at the level of the brain in some important detail, then you have to admit that we are going to understand all of the positive and negative qualities of ourselves in much greater detail.	一旦我们承认 我们走在解构理性的路上 以理解大脑运作的方法 那么你也必须承认 我们将会更明白 我们身上的这些 正面和负面的特质
So, we're going to understand positive social emotion like empathy and compassion, and we're going to understand the factors that encourage it -- whether they're genetic, whether they're how people talk to one another, whether they're economic systems, and insofar as we begin to shine light on that we are inevitably going to converge on that fact space.	我们会理解正面的社群特质 像是同情心、仁爱心 我们将会了解是怎样的元素 帮助我们有这些特质 － 无论是基因 是人们对话的方式 是经济体系 我们正要开始发现 并无可避免的步向 这些事实
So, everything is not going to be up for grabs.	我们不能再自由心证
It's not going to be like veiling my daughter from birth is just as good as teaching her to be confident and well-educated in the context of men who do desire women.	为了得到男人的青睐 就让我刚出生的女儿蒙头 或是教导她成为一个 自信而有教养的女性 是完全不同的两件事
I mean I don't think we need an NSF grant to know that compulsory veiling is a bad idea -- but at a certain point we're going to be able to scan the brains of everyone involved and actually interrogate them.	我想我们不需要国家科学基金会特别拨款 才能发现强制女人蒙头很不好 到了某种程度 我们可以扫描每个人的头脑 并研究它们
Do people love their daughters just as much in these systems?	人们真的爱它们的女儿吗 就算在那样的文化下？
And I think there are clearly right answers to that.	我想这些问题是有正确答案的。
And if the results come out that actually they do, are you prepared to shift your instinctive current judgment on some of these issues?	C.A.：如果结论是她们真的快乐 你准备好改变你现在的直观判断了吗 在这些议题上
SH: Well yeah, modulo one obvious fact, that you can love someone in the context of a truly delusional belief system.	S.H.：举个真实案例 就算在一个虚假的道德体系里 你还是可以爱人
So, you can say like, "Because I knew my gay son was going to go to hell if he found a boyfriend, I chopped his head off. And that was the most compassionate thing I could do."	你会说，"因为我爱我的儿子， 我不想他因为他的男朋友下地狱 于是我把他的头砍下来，这就是我对他的爱
If you get all those parts aligned, yes I think you could probably be feeling the emotion of love.	如果你能找到一个均衡 是的你仍然可以感觉到一种爱
But again, then we have to talk about well-being in a larger context.	但是我们也必须把幸福 放到更大的背景下来谈
It's all of us in this together, not one man feeling ecstasy and then blowing himself up on a bus.	这是我们共同的功课 不是一个男人进入一种狂喜状态 就可以在巴士上把自己炸掉
Sam, this is a conversation I would actually love to continue for hours.	C.A.：我很希望这个对话可以继续 几个小时
We don't have that, but maybe another time. Thank you for coming to TED.	虽然现在不行，或许在不远的将来。谢谢你来 TED 演讲
SH: Really an honor. Thank you.	S.H.：是我的荣幸，谢谢你。
Salaam. Namaskar.	问候。
Good morning.	早上好。
Given my TED profile, you might be expecting that I'm going to speak to you about the latest philanthropic trends -- the one that's currently got Wall Street and the World Bank buzzing -- how to invest in women, how to empower them, how to save them.	考虑到我的TED履历，你可能期待 我会跟你们探讨 最新的慈善趋势， 新的让华尔街 和世界银行都兴奋， 那便是怎样在女性身上投资， 怎样授予她们全力，怎样拯救她们。
Not me.	那不是我。
I am interested in how women are saving us.	我对女性如何 拯救我们更有兴趣。
They're saving us by redefining and re-imagining a future that defies and blurs accepted polarities, polarities we've taken for granted for a long time, like the ones between modernity and tradition, First World and Third World, oppression and opportunity.	她们拯救我们，重新定义和重新想像 一个反抗和模糊 传统冲突的未来， 那些我们认为理所当然的冲突， 像现代与传统之间的冲突， 发达国家与发展中国家之间的冲突， 压迫与机会之间的冲突。
In the midst of the daunting challenges we face as a global community, there's something about this third way raga that is making my heart sing.	在这些我们作为一个国际社会 所面对的使人气馁的挑战中， 就有那么一个 另类的拉伽 使我的心在唱歌。
What intrigues me most is how women are doing this, despite a set of paradoxes that are both frustrating and fascinating.	最令我好奇的是 这些女性如何面对这些挑战， 尽管她们知道这是一对 既令人沮丧又让人兴奋的矛盾论。
Why is it that women are, on the one hand, viciously oppressed by cultural practices, and yet at the same time, are the preservers of cultures in most societies?	为什么女人，既是 传统文化所压制的一群， 又是， 保存传统文化的一群？
Is the hijab or the headscarf a symbol of submission or resistance?	那希贾布或头巾是 屈服的标志 还是反抗的表示？
When so many women and girls are beaten, raped, maimed on a daily basis in the name of all kinds of causes -- honor, religion, nationality -- what allows women to replant trees, to rebuild societies, to lead radical, non-violent movements for social change?	当无数女人和女孩子 被打，被强迫，被残废， 这些每天都在发生， 在各种名义下发生， 像荣誉，信仰，民族等等， 是什么让女性重新植树， 重造社会， 领导激进却不暴力 为求社会变革的运动？
Is it different women who are doing the preserving and the radicalizing?	是不同的女性 在保存和在引领激进？
Or are they one and the same?	还是她们是同一个群体？
Are we guilty, as Chimamanda Adichie reminded us at the TED conference in Oxford, of assuming that there is a single story of women's struggles for their rights while there are, in fact, many?	我们应该感到惭愧吗？正如 Chimamanda Adichie 在牛津的一个TED研讨会上提醒我们， 不要总是认为只有一个同样的 女性为她们的权利而斗争的故事， 因为事实上有许多这样不同的故事，
And what, if anything, do men have to do with it?	还有， 这些跟男人有什么关系？
Much of my life has been a quest to get some answers to these questions.	我的人生大部分时间都在探索， 试图得到这些问题的答案。
It's taken me across the globe and introduced me to some amazing people.	这带着我穿越国界， 并让我认识了一些非常不可思议的人。
In the process, I've gathered a few fragments that help me shed some light on this puzzle.	在整个过程当中，我聚集了一些片断 来帮助我解答这个疑问。
Among those who've helped open my eyes to a third way are: a devout Muslim in Afghanistan, a group of harmonizing lesbians in Croatia and a taboo breaker in Liberia.	在这些帮助我开阔视野 认识另类的人当中， 有一个虔诚的阿富汗伊斯兰教信徒， 一群克罗地亚和声唱女同性恋者， 还有一个利比里亚的善于打破禁忌的人。
I'm indebted to them, as I am to my parents, who for some set of misdemeanors in their last life, were blessed with three daughters in this one.	我对她们非常的感恩， 就像我对自己的父母一般， 他们因为前世的一些轻罪， 今生得到了三个女儿。
And for reasons equally unclear to me, seem to be inordinately proud of the three of us.	不知道是什么原因， 他们却非常的为我们三个感到自豪。
I was born and raised here in India, and I learned from an early age to be deeply suspicious of the aunties and uncles who would bend down, pat us on the head and then say to my parents with no problem at all, "Poor things. You only have three daughters.	我生于长于印度， 并且我从小就懂得 对那些阿姨叔叔有所怀疑， 他们会弯腰，拍拍我们的头 然后他们会对我的父母 毫不犹豫的说， "可怜的东西。 你们只有三个女儿。
But you're young, you could still try again."	但是你们都还年轻，还可以试试。"
My sense of outrage about women's rights was brought to a boil when I was about 11.	我那股 对女性权利的义愤 在我11岁的时候毅然激起。
My aunt, an incredibly articulate and brilliant woman, was widowed early.	我的阿姨，一位非常口齿伶俐 非常美丽的女士， 早年丧夫。
A flock of relatives descended on her.	一大群亲戚驾临她家。
They took off her colorful sari.	他们把她的五彩莎丽脱去。
They made her wear a white one.	他们逼使她带上一个苍白的莎丽。
They wiped her bindi off her forehead.	他们把她的额前痣抹去。
They broke her bangles.	他们把她的手镯打碎。
Her daughter, Rani, a few years older than me, sat in her lap bewildered, not knowing what had happened to the confident woman she once knew as her mother.	她的女儿，Rani, 比我大几岁， 坐在她的腿上，困惑， 不懂得眼前 发生在这个自信的女人身上的一切， 这个她曾经一度认为是她母亲的女人。
Late that night, I heard my mother begging my father, "Please do something Ramu. Can't you intervene?"	那天晚上，我听见我母亲 哀求我的父亲， "请你为Ramu想想办法。难道你就不能阻止他们吗？"
And my father, in a low voice, muttering, "I'm just the youngest brother, there's nothing I can do.	我的父亲，低沉的喃喃自语道， "我只是家里最年轻的兄弟，我无能为力。
This is tradition."	这是传统。"
That's the night I learned the rules about what it means to be female in this world.	那便是我懂得 在这个社会做女人的意味着什么。
Women don't make those rules, but they define us, and they define our opportunities and our chances.	我们女人不创立那些规矩， 但是那些规矩定义我们，并定义 我们的机会和机遇。
And men are affected by those rules too.	男人也被这些规矩影响。
My father, who had fought in three wars, could not save his own sister from this suffering.	我的父亲，曾经参与三场战争， 却不能帮助他自己的姐姐 脱离这场悲剧。
By 18, under the excellent tutelage of my mother, I was therefore, as you might expect, defiantly feminist.	还不到18岁， 在我母亲非凡的教导下， 我，像你们所像的一般， 是一个大胆的女权运动者。
On the streets chanting, "[Hindi] [Hindi] We are the women of India.	在街上喊着， [印度语］ [印度语］ "我们是印度的妇女，
We are not flowers, we are sparks of change."	我们不是脆弱的花朵，我们是社会转变的火花。"
By the time I got to Beijing in 1995, it was clear to me, the only way to achieve gender equality was to overturn centuries of oppressive tradition.	1995年，在我到达北京前， 我深深的知道，唯一 通往两性平等的道路 便是推翻世纪长的 压迫的传统。
Soon after I returned from Beijing, I leapt at the chance to work for this wonderful organization, founded by women, to support women's rights organizations around the globe.	在我从北京回来不久， 我马上决定为这个不同凡响的 由女性创立的组织工作， 支持全球妇女权利组织。
But barely six months into my new job, I met a woman who forced me to challenge all my assumptions.	但是六个月不到， 我认识了一位女士， 一位让我不得不挑战我之前的假定的女士。
Her name is Sakena Yacoobi.	她叫Sakena Yacoobi。
She walked into my office at a time when no one knew where Afghanistan was in the United States.	她走进我的办公室 在一个没有任何美国人知道 阿富汗在哪的时代。
She said to me, "It is not about the burka."	她对我说，"这跟布卡没有关系。"
She was the most determined advocate for women's rights I had ever heard.	她是我所见过的最坚决的 女权拥护者。
She told me women were running underground schools in her communities inside Afghanistan, and that her organization, the Afghan Institute of Learning, had started a school in Pakistan.	她告诉我妇女在她那深入阿富汗的社区里 开办地下学校 还有，她的组织，阿富汗学习学会， 在巴基斯坦也开办了一个学校。
She said, "The first thing anyone who is a Muslim knows is that the Koran requires and strongly supports literacy.	她说，"任何伊斯兰教徒都知道的第一件事， 便是可兰经规定 并强烈支持读写能力。
The prophet wanted every believer to be able to read the Koran for themselves."	先知想让所有的信徒 都可以自己读写可兰经。"
Had I heard right?	我所听到的是真的吗？
Was a women's rights advocate invoking religion?	一个女权拥护者 居然激发宗教信仰？
But Sakena defies labels.	可是Sakena违抗标记。
She always wears a headscarf, but I've walked alongside with her on a beach with her long hair flying in the breeze.	她一直都只戴一个头巾。 我跟她在海边散布过， 她的长头发在风中飘扬。
She starts every lecture with a prayer, but she's a single, feisty, financially independent woman in a country where girls are married off at the age of 12.	她每堂课开始之前都先做一个祈祷， 可是她是一位单身，坚决 经济独立的女性， 生活在一个女孩在12岁的时候便出嫁的国度。
She is also immensely pragmatic.	她也非常讲求实效。
"This headscarf and these clothes," she says, "give me the freedom to do what I need to do to speak to those whose support and assistance are critical for this work.	"这个头巾和这些衣服，" 她说道， "赋予我去做我必须的事的自由 去跟这个运动急需的支持和帮助 的那些人探讨。
When I had to open the school in the refugee camp, I went to see the imam.	当我需要在难民营中开办这个学校， 我去拜见了伊玛目。
I told him, 'I'm a believer, and women and children in these terrible conditions need their faith to survive.'" She smiles slyly.	我告诉他，"我是一个信徒，这些妇女和孩子 在如此水深火热当中 需要他们的信念来生存。" 她俏皮的笑笑。
"He was flattered.	他被奉承得很满意。
He began to come twice a week to my center because women could not go to the mosque.	他开始每星期来我的中心两次 因为这些妇女不能到清真寺。
And after he would leave, women and girls would stay behind.	在他离开以后， 这些妇女和女孩会留下来。
We began with a small literacy class to read the Koran, then a math class, then an English class, then computer classes.	我们开始一个小小的读写班级 来念可兰经， 然后开始一个数学课，再一个英语课，再一个电脑课。
In a few weeks, everyone in the refugee camp was in our classes."	短短几个星期，每个在难民营的人 都来上我们的课。 "
Sakena is a teacher at a time when to educate women is a dangerous business in Afghanistan.	Sakena 是一位老师 在阿富汗一个教育妇女是一件危险的事情 的年代。
She is on the Taliban's hit list.	她身居塔利班的打击对象名单。
I worry about her every time she travels across that country.	她每次穿越那个国家，我都得为她担心。
She shrugs when I ask her about safety.	每次我问她安全问题，她总是不在乎的耸耸肩。
"Kavita jaan, we cannot allow ourselves to be afraid.	"Kavita Jan, 我们可不能让自己害怕。
Look at those young girls who go back to school when acid is thrown in their face."	看看那些年轻的重新上学的女孩子 她们的脸被泼硫酸。"
And I smile, and I nod, realizing I'm watching women and girls using their own religious traditions and practices, turning them into instruments of opposition and opportunity.	我笑笑，点点头， 认识到自己正见证着妇女和女孩子们 用她们自己的宗教传统和惯例， 把它们变成反抗和创造机会 的工具。
Their path is their own and it looks towards an Afghanistan that will be different.	她们的道路是她们自己的 这条道路正朝着一个创造不同的阿富汗 的方向发展。
Being different is something the women of Lesbor in Zagreb, Croatia know all too well.	与别人不同是一件 克罗地亚 Zagreb, Lesbor的女人 司空见惯的事。
To be a lesbian, a dyke, a homosexual in most parts of the world, including right here in our country, India, is to occupy a place of immense discomfort and extreme prejudice.	作为一位女同性恋者， 一位同性恋者 在世界的大部分角落，包括在这里， 我们的祖国，印度， 等同于生活在一个极度不适 以及极度歧视的环境里。
In post-conflict societies like Croatia, where a hyper-nationalism and religiosity have created an environment unbearable for anyone who might be considered a social outcast.	在像克罗地亚这样的战后社会里， 极端爱国主义与宗教信仰 创造了一个让任何被社会排挤的 人 无法忍受的恶劣环境。
So enter a group of out dykes, young women who love the old music that once spread across that region from Macedonia to Bosnia, from Serbia to Slovenia.	想像一群女同性恋者， 一群年轻的，热爱 传遍整个地区的传统音乐的女人， 从马其顿到波斯尼亚， 从塞尔维亚到斯洛文尼亚。
These folk singers met at college at a gender studies program.	这些民歌手相识在大学里的一个两性学习研究。
Many are in their 20s, some are mothers.	许多都只有20多岁。有些已为人母。
Many have struggled to come out to their communities, in families whose religious beliefs make it hard to accept that their daughters are not sick, just queer.	许多都得艰难的在她们的社区公开她们的性取向。 在家里，宗教信仰致使父母难以接受 他们的女儿没有生病， 她们只是同性恋。
As Leah, one of the founders of the group, says, "I like traditional music very much.	Leah，这个小组的发起人之一，说道， 我很喜欢传统音乐。
I also like rock and roll.	我也很喜欢摇滚音乐。
So Lesbor, we blend the two.	所以我们何二为一，叫Lesbor。
I see traditional music like a kind of rebellion, in which people can really speak their voice, especially traditional songs from other parts of the former Yugoslav Republic.	我觉得传统音乐就像一种叛逆， 人们可以大胆抒发他们的想法， 特别是一些来自 其他前南斯拉夫共和国的传统歌曲。
After the war, lots of these songs were lost, but they are a part of our childhood and our history, and we should not forget them."	战后，许多像这样的歌曲被遗失。 但是它们是我们童年更是我们历史的一部分， 我们不应该把它们遗忘。 "
Improbably, this LGBT singing choir has demonstrated how women are investing in tradition to create change, like alchemists turning discord into harmony.	不大可能般的，这个同性恋，双性恋，以及变性合唱团 向我们展示了这些女人如何 在传统上投资来创造转变， 像炼金术士一般将纠纷转变成和谐。
Their repertoire includes the Croatian national anthem, a Bosnian love song and Serbian duets.	她们的表演项目包括 克罗地亚国歌， 一首波斯尼亚爱情歌 和一些塞尔维亚对唱。
And, Leah adds with a grin, "Kavita, we especially are proud of our Christmas music, because it shows we are open to religious practices even though Catholic Church hates us LGBT."	Leah接着笑笑的说， "Kavita, 我们对自己的圣诞音乐特别自豪， 因为它们显示了我们欢迎宗教信仰 尽管天主教会 对我们极度痛恨。"
Their concerts draw from their own communities, yes, but also from an older generation: a generation that might be suspicious of homosexuality, but is nostalgic for its own music and the past it represents.	她们的演唱会观众来自 她们本身的社区，这是当然的， 还有来自老的一辈 一辈可能对 同性恋存在怀疑， 但是对他们自己的传统音乐以及过去非常的怀念。
One father, who had initially balked at his daughter coming out in such a choir, now writes songs for them.	一位父亲曾经一度阻止他的女儿 在这样一个合唱团公开她的性取向， 现在却为她们写歌。
In the Middle Ages, troubadours would travel across the land singing their tales and sharing their verses: Lesbor travels through the Balkans like this, singing, connecting people divided by religion, nationality and language.	在中世纪，游吟诗人 会穿越每片土地， 唱着他们的故事，分享他们的诗节。 Lesbor像巴尔干半岛人一般的跨越不同国度， 合唱着，把那些 被宗教，国籍以及语言分离的人们连在一起，
Bosnians, Croats and Serbs find a rare shared space of pride in their history, and Lesbor reminds them that the songs one group often claims as theirs alone really belong to them all.	波斯尼亚人，克罗地亚人，还有塞尔维亚人 找到在他们历史里一个极为少有的，共同分享的一份荣耀， Lesbor提醒他们 这些歌曲，看似只属于某个民族， 其实属于所有的民族。
Yesterday, Mallika Sarabhai showed us that music can create a world more accepting of difference than the one we have been given.	(歌声） 昨天， Mallika Sarabhai向我们展示了 音乐可以创造一个世界 一个比我们现有 可以包容更多不同的世界。
The world Layma Bowie was given was a world at war.	Layma Bowie所给予的世界 是一个在打仗的世界。
Liberia had been torn apart by civil strife for decades.	利比里亚长期被内乱弄得四分五裂。
Layma was not an activist, she was a mother of three.	Layma不是一位积极分子，她是三个孩子的母亲。
But she was sick with worry: She worried her son would be abducted and taken off to be a child soldier, she worried her daughters would be raped, she worried for their lives.	可是她一直不停的担忧。 她担心她的儿子被绑架 去当儿童兵。 她担心她的女儿们会被强暴。 她为他们的生活忧心。
One night, she had a dream.	一天晚上，她做了一个梦。
She dreamt she and thousands of other women ended the bloodshed.	她梦见她和别的成千上万的女人 结束了这场血战。
The next morning at church, she asked others how they felt.	第二天早上在教会里，她问大家对这场内乱都怎么想。
They were all tired of the fighting.	大家都对这些战争感到很疲惫。
We need peace, and we need our leaders to know we will not rest until there is peace.	我们需要和平，而且我们得让我们的领导人知道 我们达不到目标是不会放弃的。
Among Layma's friends was a policewoman who was Muslim.	在Layma的朋友当中，有一位伊斯兰教女警察。
She promised to raise the issue with her community.	她承诺向她的社区提起这件事情。
At the next Friday sermon, the women who were sitting in the side room of the mosque began to share their distress at the state of affairs.	到下个星期五的布道， 那些在清真寺侧房里的女人 开始讨论她们对时势的担忧。
"What does it matter?" they said, "A bullet doesn't distinguish between a Muslim and a Christian."	"这有什么关系？"她们说，"一颗子弹根本不能辨别 谁是伊斯兰教徒谁是基督教徒。"
This small group of women, determined to bring an end to the war, and they chose to use their traditions to make a point: Liberian women usually wear lots of jewelry and colorful clothing.	这一小群妇女 下定决心一定要结束这场内乱。 而且她们决定利用她们的传统来表达她们的决心。 利比里亚女人通常穿戴 许多首饰和五颜六色的衣服。
But no, for the protest, they dressed all in white, no makeup.	可是，在抗议当中，这些妇女只穿 全身白色，没有化妆。
As Layma said, "We wore the white saying we were out for peace."	像Layma说的一般，"我们穿白色 来表达我们缺乏和平的事实。"
They stood on the side of the road on which Charles Taylor's motorcade passed every day.	她们站在 Charles Taylor的摩托车每天都经过的路旁。
They stood for weeks -- first just 10, then 20, then 50, then hundreds of women -- wearing white, singing, dancing, saying they were out for peace.	她们一个星期接着一个星期的站在那， 一开始只有10个人，然后20人，然后50人，最后几百名妇女 穿着白色，唱着歌，跳着舞， 告诉大家她们需要和平。
Eventually, opposing forces in Liberia were pushed to hold peace talks in Ghana.	最后，利比里亚的敌对势力 被迫在加纳举行和谈。
The peace talks dragged on and on and on.	和谈不断的被拖延。
Layma and her sisters had had enough.	Layma和她的姐妹们忍无可忍。
With their remaining funds, they took a small group of women down to the venue of the peace talks and they surrounded the building.	她们用剩下的经费，带上 一小群妇女，来到和谈的会场， 她们把会场包围。
In a now famous CNN clip, you can see them sitting on the ground, their arms linked.	在一个后来变得非常有名的CNN短片， 你可以看见这群妇女坐在地上，她们的手臂相连着。
We know this in India. It's called a [Hindi].	在印度我们把这叫做 ［印度语］。
Then things get tense.	接着事情变得激进。
The police are called in to physically remove the women.	警察被命令把这些妇女赶离现场。
As the senior officer approaches with a baton, Layma stands up with deliberation, reaches her arms up over her head, and begins, very slowly, to untie her headdress that covers her hair.	当高级警官拿着警棍向她们靠近， Layma从容地站起来， 把双手举高，越过她的头， 开始慢慢的 解开包着她头发的头巾。
You can see the policeman's face.	你可以看见那位警察的脸。
He looks embarrassed. He backs away.	他感到不好意思。 他开始退后。
And the next thing you know, the police have disappeared.	接着下来， 警察们消失了。
Layma said to me later, "It's a taboo, you know, in West Africa.	Layma后来告诉我， "这是一个禁忌，你知道，在西非。
If an older woman undresses in front of a man because she wants to, the man's family is cursed."	如果一个年长的妇女在一个男人面前拖衣， 因为她是自愿的， 那个男人的全家便被诅咒。"
She said, "I don't know if he did it because he believed, but he knew we were not going to leave.	(笑声） 她说，"我不知道他退后是不是因为他相信这个传统， 不过他知道我们是不会离开的。
We were not going to leave until the peace accord was signed."	如果和平协议一天没有签订，我们是决不会离开的。"
And the peace accord was signed.	然后和平协议最终签订了。
And the women of Liberia then mobilized in support of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, a woman who broke a few taboos herself becoming the first elected woman head of state in Africa in years.	利比里亚的妇女 发起组织支持Ellen Johnson Sirleaf， 一位打破不少禁忌的女士， 成为数年来非洲 第一位当选的女国家元首。
When she made her presidential address, she acknowledged these brave women of Liberia who allowed her to win against a football star -- that's soccer for you Americans -- no less.	在她发表她的总统报告时， 她公开感谢那些勇敢的利比里亚妇女 是她们让她赢过了一位足球明星－ 对于你们美国人来说，那便是英式足球－－ 她们居然让她赢过了这位明星。
Women like Sakena and Leah and Layma have humbled me and changed me and made me realize that I should not be so quick to jump to assumptions of any kind.	像Sakena和Leah一般的妇女， 还有Layma 让我感到谦虚，她们改变了我 并让我懂得我不应该那么快 的对任何人做结论。
They've also saved me from my righteous anger by offering insights into this third way.	她们用自己对这另类的道路的看法， 把我从我那正义的愤怒里拯救过来。
A Filipina activist once said to me, "How do you cook a rice cake?	一位菲律宾籍的积极分子告诉我， "你怎么做米饼?
With heat from the bottom and heat from the top."	用来自底部的热气和来自顶端的热气。"
The protests, the marches, the uncompromising position that women's rights are human rights, full stop.	这些抗议，这些游行， 永不妥协的事实是 妇女的权利是人权的基本一部分，句号。
That's the heat from the bottom.	那便是来自底部的热气。
That's Malcolm X and the suffragists and gay pride parades.	那是Malcolm X和主张妇女有权参政者 还有同性恋自豪游行。
But we also need the heat from the top.	可是我们也需要来自顶端的热气。
And in most parts of the world, that top is still controlled by men.	在这个世界的大部分角落， 顶端还是由 男人所控制。
So to paraphrase Marx: Women make change, but not in circumstances of their own choosing.	在这里释义一下Marx：妇女创造改变， 并不在她们选择的环境里。
They have to negotiate.	她们得谈判。
They have to subvert tradition that once silenced them in order to give voice to new aspirations.	她们得颠覆那些一度使她们沉默的传统 只为了能把新的抱负公诸于世。
And they need allies from their communities.	她们还需要来自她们社区的同盟，
Allies like the imam, allies like the father who now writes songs for a lesbian group in Croatia, allies like the policeman who honored a taboo and backed away, allies like my father, who couldn't help his sister but has helped three daughters pursue their dreams.	像那个伊玛目一般的盟友， 像那位开始为克罗地亚女同性恋歌唱团写新歌的父亲 一般的盟友， 像那位遵守禁忌选择后退的警察一般的盟友， 像我父亲一般的盟友， 虽然他无法帮助自己的姐姐，但是他帮助他三个女儿 去寻求她们的梦想。
Maybe this is because feminism, unlike almost every other social movement, is not a struggle against a distinct oppressor -- it's not the ruling class or the occupiers or the colonizers -- it's against a deeply held set of beliefs and assumptions that we women, far too often, hold ourselves.	这可能是因为女权主义， 不象别的社会运动， 都反对一个明显的压迫者。 这并不是反对统治阶级， 或占据者，或殖民地者， 这是反对一些在我们女人常常 脑子里 根深蒂固的信仰和认定。
And perhaps this is the ultimate gift of feminism, that the personal is in fact the political.	也许这就是女权主义的最有利的地方, 个人的实际上就是政治的。
So that, as Eleanor Roosevelt said once of human rights, the same is true of gender equality: that it starts in small places, close to home.	因此，这就跟Eleanor Roosevelt 所说的人权一样， 两性平等也如此， 它从一些小的，靠近家的地方开始。
On the streets, yes, but also in negotiations at the kitchen table and in the marital bed and in relationships between lovers and parents and sisters and friends.	在街上，对， 也在厨房饭桌上的辩论 还有在婚姻的床上 以及在爱人家人的感情里 在姐妹朋友的感情里。
And then you realize that by integrating aspects of tradition and community into their struggles, women like Sakena and Leah and Layma -- but also women like Sonia Gandhi here in India and Michelle Bachelet in Chile and Shirin Ebadi in Iran -- are doing something else.	然后，然后， 你发现将 传统和社区与 她们的斗争联合起来， 像Sakena 和 Leah 还有 Layma的妇女， 还有在印度的Sonia Gandhi， 智利的Michelle Bachelet， 以及伊朗的Shirin Ebadi 都在做一些别的事情。
They're challenging the very notion of Western models of development.	她们正挑战这个 西方发展模式。
They are saying, we don't have to be like you to make change.	她们正用行动表明，我们并不需要像你 来创造改变。
We can wear a sari or a hijab or pants or a boubou, and we can be party leaders and presidents and human rights lawyers.	我们穿莎丽或希贾布 或穿裤子或布布装， 我们同样可以成为党领导人和总统 以及人权律师。
We can use our tradition to navigate change.	我们可以用我们的传统来探索改变。
We can demilitarize societies and pour resources, instead, into reservoirs of genuine security.	我们可以使社会非军事化 取而代之，我们倒入资源 用于真正的国防。
It is in these little stories, these individual stories, that I see a radical epic being written by women around the world.	就是在这些小故事里， 这些独立的故事里， 我看到了由 世界各处的妇女撰写的一部激进的史诗。
It is in these threads that are being woven into a resilient fabric that will sustain communities, that I find hope.	就是在这些被 编织到一块强硬织布的， 会支持社区的线条里， 我找到了希望。
And if my heart is singing, it's because in these little fragments, every now and again, you catch a glimpse of a whole, of a whole new world.	如果我的心在歌唱， 那时因为，在这些零碎的片断里， 不时的，你会捕捉到一瞬， 能看到一个全新世界的一瞬。
And she is definitely on her way.	这个全新的世界，她正朝着我们迈进。
Thank you.	谢谢。
So it's 1995, I'm in college, and a friend and I go on a road trip from Providence, Rhode Island to Portland, Oregon.	当时是95年 我在上大学 我和一个朋友开车去玩 从罗得岛的普罗旺斯区出发 到奥勒冈州的波特兰市
And you know, we're young and unemployed, so we do the whole thing on back roads through state parks and national forests -- basically the longest route we can possibly take.	我们年轻，无业 于是整个旅程都在乡间小道 经过州立公园 和国家保护森林 我们尽可能绕着最长的路径
And somewhere in the middle of South Dakota, I turn to my friend and I ask her a question that's been bothering me for 2,000 miles.	在南达科塔州之中某处 我转向我的朋友 问她一个 两千英里路途上 一直烦恼我的问题
"What's up with the Chinese character I keep seeing by the side of the road?"	"路边那个一直出现的中文字到底是什么?"
My friend looks at me totally blankly.	我的朋友露出疑惑的神情
There's actually a gentleman in the front row who's doing a perfect imitation of her look.	正如现在坐在第一排的这三位男士 所露出的神情一样
And I'm like, "You know, all the signs we keep seeing with the Chinese character on them."	我说"你知道的 我们一直看到的那个路牌 写着中文的那个啊"
She just stares at me for a few moments, and then she cracks up, because she figures out what I'm talking about.	她瞪着我的脸一阵子 突然笑开了 因为她总算知道我所指为何
And what I'm talking about is this.	我说的是这个
Right, the famous Chinese character for picnic area.	没错，这就是代表野餐区的那个中文字
I've spent the last five years of my life thinking about situations exactly like this -- why we sometimes misunderstand the signs around us, and how we behave when that happens, and what all of this can tell us about human nature.	过去的五年 我一直在思考 刚刚我所描述的状况 为什么我们会对身边的征兆 产生误解 当误解发生时我们作何反应 以及这一切所告诉我们的人性
In other words, as you heard Chris say, I've spent the last five years thinking about being wrong.	换句话说，就像 Chris 刚才说的 过去五年的时间 我都在思考错误的价值
This might strike you as a strange career move, but it actually has one great advantage: no job competition.	你可能觉得这是个奇异的专业 但有一项好处是不容置疑的： 没有竞争者。
In fact, most of us do everything we can to avoid thinking about being wrong, or at least to avoid thinking about the possibility that we ourselves are wrong.	事实上，我们大部分的人 都尽力不思考错误的价值 或至少避免想到我们 有可能犯错。
We get it in the abstract.	我们都知道这个模糊的概念。
We all know everybody in this room makes mistakes.	我们都知道这里的每个人都曾经犯错
The human species, in general, is fallible -- okay fine.	人类本来就会犯错 － 没问题
But when it comes down to me, right now, to all the beliefs I hold, here in the present tense, suddenly all of this abstract appreciation of fallibility goes out the window -- and I can't actually think of anything I'm wrong about.	一旦这个想法临到我们自身 我们现在所有的 所有的信念 对人类可能犯错的抽象概念 随即被我们抛弃 我无法想到我有哪里出错
And the thing is, the present tense is where we live.	但是，我们活在现在
We go to meetings in the present tense; we go on family vacations in the present tense; we go to the polls and vote in the present tense.	我们开会，去家庭旅游 去投票 全都是现在式
So effectively, we all kind of wind up traveling through life, trapped in this little bubble of feeling very right about everything.	我们就像现在一个小泡泡里 经历人生 感觉自己总是对的
I think this is a problem.	我认为这是个问题
I think it's a problem for each of us as individuals, in our personal and professional lives, and I think it's a problem for all of us collectively as a culture.	我认为这是每个人私人生活 和职业生活中的问题 我认为我们身为群体，这也造成了文化问题
So what I want to do today is, first of all, talk about why we get stuck inside this feeling of being right.	于是，我今天想做的是 先谈谈为甚么我们会 陷在这种自以为是的心态中
And second, why it's such a problem.	第二是为甚么这是个问题
And finally, I want to convince you that it is possible to step outside of that feeling and that if you can do so, it is the single greatest moral, intellectual and creative leap you can make.	最后我想说服大家 克服这种感觉 是可能的 而且一旦你做到了 这将成为你道德上 智性上和创意上最大的进步
So why do we get stuck in this feeling of being right?	为甚么我们会陷在 这种自以为是的心态中？
One reason, actually, has to do with a feeling of being wrong.	事实上这和犯错的感觉有关
So let me ask you guys something -- or actually, let me ask you guys something, because you're right here: How does it feel -- emotionally -- how does it feel to be wrong?	我想问问你们 让我问问台上的你们 当你意识到自己犯错了 你感觉如何？
Dreadful. Thumbs down.	糟透了。很差劲。
Embarrassing. Okay, wonderful, great.	难堪。很好，是的。
Dreadful, thumbs down, embarrassing -- thank you, these are great answers, but they're answers to a different question.	很糟糕，很差劲，很难堪。 谢谢你们提供这些答案 但这些答案没有回答我的问题
You guys are answering the question: How does it feel to realize you're wrong?	你们回答的问题是： 当你意识到你犯错的时候，你的感觉如何？
Realizing you're wrong can feel like all of that and a lot of other things, right?	意识到你犯错了就会有刚刚所说的这些感觉，不是吗？
I mean it can be devastating, it can be revelatory, it can actually be quite funny, like my stupid Chinese character mistake.	令人沮丧，暴露了一些真实 有时候甚至有些好笑 像我误以为路牌是中文字
But just being wrong doesn't feel like anything.	但犯错本身 事实上毫无感觉
I'll give you an analogy.	让我给你一个例子
Do you remember that Loony Tunes cartoon where there's this pathetic coyote who's always chasing and never catching a roadrunner?	你记得卡通里 那个总是在追逐 却从未抓到猎物的土狼吗？
In pretty much every episode of this cartoon, there's a moment where the coyote is chasing the roadrunner and the roadrunner runs off a cliff, which is fine -- he's a bird, he can fly.	几乎在每一集里 牠的猎物 － 一只走鹃鸟 都会跳下悬崖 反正牠是鸟，牠可以飞
But the thing is, the coyote runs off the cliff right after him.	但土狼也会跟着牠一起跳崖
And what's funny -- at least if you're six years old -- is that the coyote's totally fine too.	那很好笑 如果你是个六岁儿童 土狼也很好
He just keeps running -- right up until the moment that he looks down and realizes that he's in mid-air.	牠就这么继续跑 直到牠往下看 发现自己漫步在空中
That's when he falls.	这时候他才会往下掉
When we're wrong about something -- not when we realize it, but before that -- we're like that coyote after he's gone off the cliff and before he looks down.	在我们犯错时 在我们意识到我们犯错时 我们就像那只土狼 还没意识到自己奔出悬崖
You know, we're already wrong, we're already in trouble, but we feel like we're on solid ground.	我们已经错了 已经惹上麻烦了 但仍然感觉像走在地上
So I should actually correct something I said a moment ago.	我应该改变我之前的说法
It does feel like something to be wrong; it feels like being right.	犯错的感觉就和 正确的感觉一样
So this is one reason, a structural reason, why we get stuck inside this feeling of rightness.	事实上我们这种自以为对的感受 是有构造性的原因的
I call this error blindness.	我称之为错误盲点
Most of the time, we don't have any kind of internal cue to let us know that we're wrong about something, until it's too late.	大部份的时间里 我们身体里没有任何机制 提醒我们错了 直到木已成舟
But there's a second reason that we get stuck inside this feeling as well -- and this one is cultural.	但还有第二个理由 文化性的理由
Think back for a moment to elementary school.	回想小学时代
You're sitting there in class, and your teacher is handing back quiz papers, and one of them looks like this.	你坐在课堂里 你的老师发回小考考卷 像这样的小考考卷
This is not mine, by the way.	虽然这张不是我的
So there you are in grade school, and you know exactly what to think about the kid who got this paper.	你从小学时代 就知道该对拿这张考卷的同学 下甚么评语
It's the dumb kid, the troublemaker, the one who never does his homework.	笨蛋，捣蛋鬼 从不做功课的坏学生
So by the time you are nine years old, you've already learned, first of all, that people who get stuff wrong are lazy, irresponsible dimwits -- and second of all, that the way to succeed in life is to never make any mistakes.	你不过才九岁 你已经懂得，首先 那些犯错的人 都是懒惰、不负责任的傻瓜 第二 想要在人生中成功 就不要犯错
We learn these really bad lessons really well.	我们很早就得到这些错误讯息
And a lot of us -- and I suspect, especially a lot of us in this room -- deal with them by just becoming perfect little A students, perfectionists, over-achievers.	而我们 尤其是这个大厅里的许多人 都因此成为好学生 拿全A 完美主义、永不满意
Right, Mr. CFO, astrophysicist, ultra-marathoner?	不是吗？ 财务长、天体物理学家、超级马拉松先生们？
You're all CFO, astrophysicists, ultra-marathoners, it turns out.	结果是你们全成了财务长、天体物理学家、跑超级马拉松
Okay, so fine.	那很好
Except that then we freak out at the possibility that we've gotten something wrong.	但一旦我们发现有可能犯错 就开始手足无措
Because according to this, getting something wrong means there's something wrong with us.	因为依照规定 犯错 代表我们一定也有甚么不对劲
So we just insist that we're right, because it makes us feel smart and responsible and virtuous and safe.	于是我们坚持己见 因为那让我们感觉聪明、得体 安全和可靠
So let me tell you a story.	让我告诉你们一个故事
A couple of years ago, a woman comes into Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center for a surgery.	几年前 一个女人到 Beth Israel Deaconess 诊所做手术
Beth Israel's in Boston.	Beth Israel 在波士顿
It's the teaching hospital for Harvard -- one of the best hospitals in the country.	是哈佛大学的教学附属医院 全国数一数二的医疗中心
So this woman comes in and she's taken into the operating room.	这个女人被送进开刀房
She's anesthetized, the surgeon does his thing -- stitches her back up, sends her out to the recovery room.	麻醉，外科医生做完手术 缝合，将她送进恢复室
Everything seems to have gone fine.	一切看上去都很好
And she wakes up, and she looks down at herself, and she says, "Why is the wrong side of my body in bandages?"	她醒来，往自己身上一看 说"为甚么我的左腿绑着绷带？"
Well the wrong side of her body is in bandages because the surgeon has performed a major operation on her left leg instead of her right one.	她应该接受治疗的是右腿 但为他做手术的外科医生 却把刀开在左腿
When the vice president for health care quality at Beth Israel spoke about this incident, he said something very interesting.	当副院长出来为医院的医疗质量 和这次意外做出解释时 他说了句很有趣的话
He said, "For whatever reason, the surgeon simply felt that he was on the correct side of the patient."	他说"无论如何 这位外科医生感觉 他开下的刀是在正确的一侧"
The point of this story is that trusting too much in the feeling of being on the correct side of anything can be very dangerous.	故事的重点是 相信自己的判断力 相信自己站在对的一边 是非常危险的
This internal sense of rightness that we all experience so often is not a reliable guide to what is actually going on in the external world.	我们心中时常感觉到的 理直气壮的感觉 在真实世界中 并不是个可靠的向导。
And when we act like it is, and we stop entertaining the possibility that we could be wrong, well that's when we end up doing things like dumping 200 million gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or torpedoing the global economy.	当我们依此行事 不再思考我们是否犯错 我们就有可能 把两百湾加仑的石油倒进墨西哥湾 或是颠覆世界经济
So this is a huge practical problem.	这是个很实际的问题
But it's also a huge social problem.	这也是个很大的社会问题
Think for a moment about what it means to feel right.	"感觉对"究竟是什么意思
It means that you think that your beliefs just perfectly reflect reality.	这代表着你认为你的信念 和真实是一致的
And when you feel that way, you've got a problem to solve, which is, how are you going to explain all of those people who disagree with you?	当你有这种感觉的时候 你的问题就大了 因为如果你是对的 为甚么还有人和你持不同意见？
It turns out, most of us explain those people the same way, by resorting to a series of unfortunate assumptions.	于是我们往往用同一种 思考方式去解释这些异议
The first thing we usually do when someone disagrees with us is we just assume they're ignorant.	第一是当他人不同意我们的说法 我们便觉得他们无知
They don't have access to the same information that we do, and when we generously share that information with them, they're going to see the light and come on over to our team.	他们不像我们懂得这么多 当我们慷慨地和他们分享我们的知识 他们便会理解，并加入我们的行列
When that doesn't work, when it turns out those people have all the same facts that we do and they still disagree with us, then we move on to a second assumption, which is that they're idiots.	如果不是这样 如果这些人和我们获得的信息一样多 却仍然不认同我们 我们便有了下一个定论 那就是他们是白痴
They have all the right pieces of the puzzle, and they are too moronic to put them together correctly.	他们已经有了所有的信息 却笨到无法拼凑出正确的图像
And when that doesn't work, when it turns out that people who disagree with us have all the same facts we do and are actually pretty smart, then we move on to a third assumption: they know the truth, and they are deliberately distorting it for their own malevolent purposes.	一旦第二个定论也不成立 当这些反对我们的人 和我们有一样的信息 又聪明 我们便有了第三个结论 他们知道事实是甚么 但却为了自己的好处 故意曲解真实。
So this is a catastrophe.	这真是个大灾难
This attachment to our own rightness keeps us from preventing mistakes when we absolutely need to and causes us to treat each other terribly.	我们的自以为是 让我们在最需要的时候 无法预防犯错 更让我们互相仇视
But to me, what's most baffling and most tragic about this is that it misses the whole point of being human.	对我来说 最大的悲剧是 它让我们错失了身为人的珍贵意义
It's like we want to imagine that our minds are just these perfectly translucent windows and we just gaze out of them and describe the world as it unfolds.	那就像是想象 我们的心灵之窗完全透明 我们向外观看 描述在我们之前展开的世界
And we want everybody else to gaze out of the same window and see the exact same thing.	我们想要每个人和我们有一样的窗子 对世界做出一样的观察
That is not true, and if it were, life would be incredibly boring.	那不是真的 如果是，人生将会多么无聊
The miracle of your mind isn't that you can see the world as it is.	心灵的神奇之处 不在你懂得这个世界是甚么样子
It's that you can see the world as it isn't.	而是去理解那些你不懂的地方
We can remember the past, and we can think about the future, and we can imagine what it's like to be some other person in some other place.	我们记得过去 思考未来 我们想象 自己成为他人，在他方
And we all do this a little differently, which is why we can all look up at the same night sky and see this and also this and also this.	我们的想象都有些不同 于是当我们抬头看同一个夜空 我们看到这个 这个 和这个
And yeah, it is also why we get things wrong.	这也是我们搞错事情的原因
1,200 years before Descartes said his famous thing about "I think therefore I am," this guy, St. Augustine, sat down and wrote "Fallor ergo sum" -- "I err therefore I am."	在笛卡儿说出那句有名的"我思故我在" 的一千两百年前 圣奥古斯丁，坐下来 写下"Fallor ergo sum" "我错故我在"
Augustine understood that our capacity to screw up, it's not some kind of embarrassing defect in the human system, something we can eradicate or overcome.	奥古斯丁懂得 我们犯错的能力 这并不是人性中 一个令人难堪的缺陷 不是我们可以克服或消灭的
It's totally fundamental to who we are.	这是我们的本质
Because, unlike God, we don't really know what's going on out there.	因为我们不是上帝 我们不知道我们之外究竟发生了甚么
And unlike all of the other animals, we are obsessed with trying to figure it out.	而不同于其它动物的是 我们都疯狂地想找出解答
To me, this obsession is the source and root of all of our productivity and creativity.	对我来说 这种寻找的冲动 就是我们生产力和创造力的来源
Last year, for various reasons, I found myself listening to a lot of episodes of the Public Radio show This American Life.	因为一些缘故 去年我在广播上 听了很多集的"我们的美国人生"
And so I'm listening and I'm listening, and at some point, I start feeling like all the stories are about being wrong.	我听着听着 突然发现 这些故事全和犯错有关
And my first thought was, "I've lost it.	我的第一个念头是 "我完了
I've become the crazy wrongness lady.	我写书写疯了
I just imagined it everywhere," which has happened.	四处都看到有关犯错的幻觉" 说真的是这样
But a couple of months later, I actually had a chance to interview Ira Glass, who's the host of the show.	但几个月后 我访问了那个广播节目的主持人 Ira Glass
And I mentioned this to him, and he was like, "No actually, that's true.	我向他提到这件事 他回答我"事实上
In fact," he says, "as a staff, we joke that every single episode of our show has the same crypto-theme.	你是对的"他说 "我们这些工作人员总是 开玩笑说每集节目之中的 秘密主题都是一样的
And the crypto-theme is: 'I thought this one thing was going to happen and something else happened instead.' And the thing is," says Ira Glass, "we need this.	这个秘密主题就是 "我以为这件事会这样发生 结果其它事情发生了" 他说"但是，这就是我们需要的
We need these moments of surprise and reversal and wrongness to make these stories work."	我们需要这些意外 这些颠倒和错误 这些故事才能成立。"
And for the rest of us, audience members, as listeners, as readers, we eat this stuff up.	而我们身为观众 听众、读者 我们吸收这些故事
We love things like plot twists and red herrings and surprise endings.	我们喜欢故事转折 令人惊讶的结局
When it comes to our stories, we love being wrong.	我们喜欢在故事里 看到犯错
But, you know, our stories are like this because our lives are like this.	但，故事会这样写 是因为人生就是这样
We think this one thing is going to happen and something else happens instead.	我们以为某些事情会这样发生 发生的却是其它事
George Bush thought he was going to invade Iraq, find a bunch of weapons of mass destruction, liberate the people and bring democracy to the Middle East.	小布什以为他入侵伊拉克 会找到大规模毁灭性武器 解放中东百姓，为他们带来民主自由
And something else happened instead.	但却不是这样
And Hosni Mubarak thought he was going to be the dictator of Egypt for the rest of his life, until he got too old or too sick and could pass the reigns of power onto his son.	穆巴拉克以为 他到死都会是埃及的独裁者 一直到他年老或卧病 再把他的权力交给下一代
And something else happened instead.	但却不是这样
And maybe you thought you were going to grow up and marry your high school sweetheart and move back to your hometown and raise a bunch of kids together.	或许你想过 你会长大、嫁给你的初恋情人 搬回老家，生一群孩子
And something else happened instead.	但却不是这样
And I have to tell you that I thought I was writing an incredibly nerdy book about a subject everybody hates for an audience that would never materialize.	我必须说 我以为我写的是一本很冷僻的书 有关一个人人讨厌的主题 为一些从不存在的读者
And something else happened instead.	但却不是这样
I mean, this is life.	我们的人生
For good and for ill, we generate these incredible stories about the world around us, and then the world turns around and astonishes us.	无论好坏 我们创造了啦 那包围我们的世界 而世界转过头来，令我们大吃一惊
No offense, but this entire conference is an unbelievable monument to our capacity to get stuff wrong.	说真的，这整个会议 充斥着这样难以置信的时刻 我们一次又一次地意识到自己的错误
We just spent an entire week talking about innovations and advancements and improvements, but you know why we need all of those innovations and advancements and improvements?	我们花了整整一周 讨论创新，进步 和改善 你知道我们为甚么需要这些创新 进步和改善吗？
Because half the stuff that's the most mind-boggling and world-altering -- TED 1998 -- eh.	因为其中有一半 来自最应该改变世界的 98年的TED 呃
Didn't really work out that way, did it?	真是出人意料之外啊，不是吗
Where's my jet pack, Chris?	我的逃生火箭在哪，Chris?
So here we are again.	于是我们又在这里
And that's how it goes.	事情就是这样
We come up with another idea.	我们重新想出其它点子
We tell another story.	我们有了新的故事
We hold another conference.	我们开了另一个会议
The theme of this one, as you guys have now heard seven million times, is the rediscovery of wonder.	这次的主题是 如果你还没有听到耳朵出油的话 是重新找到想象的力量
And to me, if you really want to rediscover wonder, you need to step outside of that tiny, terrified space of rightness and look around at each other and look out at the vastness and complexity and mystery of the universe and be able to say, "Wow, I don't know.	对我来说 如果你真的想重新找到想象的力量 你需要离开 那个小小的、自我感觉良好的小圈圈 看看彼此 看看宇宙的 广大无垠 复杂神秘 然后真正地说 "哇，我不知道
Maybe I'm wrong."	或许我错了。"
Thank you.	谢谢各位
Thank you guys.	谢谢
Many times I go around the world to speak, and people ask me questions about the challenges, my moments, some of my regrets.	有很多次 我到世界各地演讲时 大家会问我 关于我遇到的挑战 对我关键的时刻 和我的遗憾
1998: A single mother of four, three months after the birth of my fourth child, I went to do a job as a research assistant.	1998年 身为一个有四个孩子的单亲妈妈 生下第四个孩子还不过三个月 我找到一份 研究助理的工作
I went to Northern Liberia.	我去了利比里亚北部
And as part of the work, the village would give you lodgings.	作为工作的一部分 当地村庄会提供住宿
And they gave me lodging with a single mother and her daughter.	我被安排与一位单亲妈妈 和她的女儿住在一起
This girl happened to be the only girl in the entire village who had made it to the ninth grade.	那个女孩子正巧是 全村唯一一个 读到九年级的 女孩
She was the laughing stock of the community.	她是村里人的笑柄
Her mother was often told by other women, "You and your child will die poor."	其他女人常常对她母亲说 " 你和你的孩子 注定穷一辈子。"
After two weeks of working in that village, it was time to go back.	我在这个村庄工作了两个星期 到了回家的时候
The mother came to me, knelt down, and said, "Leymah, take my daughter.	这位母亲来到我面前，跪了下来 然后说；"莱伊曼，带我女儿走。
I wish for her to be a nurse."	我希望她 能做一个护士。"
Dirt poor, living in the home with my parents, I couldn't afford to.	一贫如洗，住在父母家里 我不能担负起这个责任。
With tears in my eyes, I said, "No."	我流着泪说： "不行。"
Two months later, I go to another village on the same assignment and they asked me to live with the village chief.	两个月后， 我去了另一个村庄 做同样的工作 他们安排我和村长一起住
The women's chief of the village has this little girl, fair color like me, totally dirty.	这个女村长带着一个小女孩 和我一样也是混血的 全身脏兮兮的
And all day she walked around only in her underwear.	她整天不论去哪 都只穿着内衣
When I asked, "Who is that?"	我问："她是谁？"
She said, "That's Wei.	村长说，她是Wei
The meaning of her name is pig.	这个名字的意思是猪
Her mother died while giving birth to her, and no one had any idea who her father was."	她母亲在生她的时候死了 没人知道她父亲是谁
For two weeks, she became my companion, slept with me.	在那两周里，她常和我在一起 和我一起睡
I bought her used clothes and bought her her first doll.	我给她买二手衣服 和她的第一个玩具娃娃
The night before I left, she came to the room and said, "Leymah, don't leave me here.	我离开的前夜 她来到我的房间 说，莱伊曼，不要丢下我
I wish to go with you.	我想跟你走
I wish to go to school."	我想上学
Dirt poor, no money, living with my parents, I again said, "No."	一贫如洗 和父母住在一起 我还是只能说："不行。"
Two months later, both of those villages fell into another war.	两个月后 这两个村庄都卷入另一场战争
Till today, I have no idea where those two girls are.	至今我还不知道 这些女孩在哪里
Fast-forward, 2004: In the peak of our activism, the minister of Gender Liberia called me and said, "Leymah, I have a nine-year-old for you.	快进到2004年 在我们的激进运动如火如荼地展开的时候 利比里亚性别与发展部部长打电话给我 说，莱伊曼，我有个九岁的女孩要交给你
I want you to bring her home because we don't have safe homes."	我想让你带她回家 因为我们没有可以给她容身的安全的地方
The story of this little girl: She had been raped by her paternal grandfather every day for six months.	这个小女孩的情况是 她被她的祖父 强暴了 整整六个月，日复一日
She came to me bloated, very pale.	她来的时候全身浮肿 面色苍白
Every night I'd come from work and lie on the cold floor.	每晚我下班回来后，躺在冰冷的地板上
She'd lie beside me and say, "Auntie, I wish to be well.	她躺在我身边 说，阿姨，我希望一切会变好
I wish to go to school."	我想上学
2010: A young woman stands before President Sirleaf and gives her testimony of how she and her siblings live together, their father and mother died during the war.	2010年 一个年轻女子站在瑟利夫总统面前 以她的亲身经历作证 讲述她和她的兄弟姐妹住在一起 他们的父母死于战争中
She's 19; her dream is to go to college to be able to support them.	她十九岁，她的梦想是上大学 并有能力培养她的兄弟姐妹
She's highly athletic.	她很有运动天分
One of the things that happens is that she applies for a scholarship.	她遭遇的一件事是 她申请了奖学金
Full scholarship. She gets it.	也拿到了全额奖学金
Her dream of going to school, her wish of being educated, is finally here.	她求学的梦想 接受教育的期望 终于实现了
She goes to school on the first day.	她去学校的第一天
The director of sports who's responsible for getting her into the program asks her to come out of class.	学校的体育主任 把她招到这个专业项目的负责人 把她叫出教室
And for the next three years, her fate will be having sex with him every day, as a favor for getting her in school.	在接下来的三年里 她的命运是 每天都与他发生性关系 作为让她进学校的报答
Globally, we have policies, international instruments, work leaders.	在世界各地，我们有各种政策 各种国际组织 各项工作的领导者
Great people have made commitments -- we will protect our children from want and from fear.	伟大的人物许下诺言—— 我们会保护我们的儿童 远离贫困，远离恐惧
The U.N. has the Convention on the Rights of the Child.	联合国有《儿童权利公约》
Countries like America, we've heard things like No Child Left Behind.	在美国，我们知道有《有教无类法》之类的条文
Other countries come with different things.	其他国家也有不同的政策
There is a Millennium Development called Three that focuses on girls.	联合国将它千年发展目标的第三条 聚焦在女孩身上
All of these great works by great people aimed at getting young people to where we want to get them globally, I think, has failed.	所有这些伟大人物做出的伟大工作 旨在带领年轻人 达到我们希望他们到达的境界 我认为，这些工作都失败了
In Liberia, for example, the teenage pregnancy rate is three to every 10 girls.	比如说，在利比里亚 少女怀孕率 是十分之三
Teen prostitution is at its peak.	少女卖淫率创下历史新高
In one community, we're told, you wake up in the morning and see used condoms like used chewing gum paper.	在一个社区，有人告诉我们 早上起来时候 可以看到用过的安全套像用过的口香糖包装纸一样四处都是
Girls as young as 12 being prostituted for less than a dollar a night.	年仅十二岁的女孩出卖自己的身体 一个晚上赚不到一美元
It's disheartening, it's sad.	这令人痛心，令人悲伤
And then someone asked me, just before my TEDTalk, a few days ago, "So where is the hope?"	在我来TED演讲的前几天 有人问我 希望在哪里？
Several years ago, a few friends of mine decided we needed to bridge the disconnect between our generation and the generation of young women.	几年前，我和几个朋友 决定我们必须弥合 这一代人 与这一代年轻女性之间的断层
It's not enough to say you have two Nobel laureates from the Republic of Liberia when your girls' kids are totally out there and no hope, or seemingly no hope.	光提这些，不足以说明鸿沟有多深 利比里亚共和国有两位诺贝尔奖得主 他们也有那么多的少女妈妈 毫无希望，或者看起来毫无希望
We created a space called the Young Girls Transformative Project.	我们创造了一个空间 叫做年轻女孩改造计划
We go into rural communities and all we do, like has been done in this room, is create the space.	我们到农村社区里去 而我们所做的，就像我们在这儿做的事一样 是创造空间
When these girls sit, you unlock intelligence, you unlock passion, you unlock commitment, you unlock focus, you unlock great leaders.	这些女孩坐下来的时候 你释放智慧 释放激情 释放信念 释放关注 释放伟大的领导者
Today, we've worked with over 300.	今天，我们帮助了超过三百个女孩
And some of those girls who walked in the room very shy have taken bold steps, as young mothers, to go out there and advocate for the rights of other young women.	其中的一些 走进房间时非常害羞的女孩 已经大胆地迈出脚步，像那些年轻妈妈们， 挺身而出 为其他年轻女性争取权利
One young woman I met, teen mother of four, never thought about finishing high school, graduated successfully; never thought about going to college, enrolled in college.	我遇到过一个年轻女性 十几岁时就有了四个孩子 从没想过读完高中 结果顺利毕业了 从没想过上大学 结果被录取了
One day she said to me, "My wish is to finish college and be able to support my children."	有一天她和我说 我的梦想是读完大学 并有能力培养我的孩子们
She's at a place where she can't find money to go to school.	她住在一个无法让她 赚够钱上学的地方
She sells water, sells soft drinks and sells recharge cards for cellphones.	她卖水，卖软饮料 卖手机充值卡
And you would think she would take that money and put it back into her education.	你们可能会认为她会把这些钱 拿回来当她自己的教育基金
Juanita is her name.	她的名字是胡安尼塔
She takes that money and finds single mothers in her community to send back to school.	她带着这些钱 找到她社区里的单亲妈妈 让她们重返校园
Says, "Leymah, my wish is to be educated.	她说，莱伊曼，我的愿望 是接受教育
And if I can't be educated, when I see some of my sisters being educated, my wish has been fulfilled.	如果我不能接受教育 当我看到我的姐妹们接受教育的时候 我的愿望就实现了
I wish for a better life.	我希望生活能更好
I wish for food for my children.	我希望我的孩子们有东西吃
I wish that sexual abuse and exploitation in schools would stop."	我希望学校里不再有性虐待和性剥削
This is the dream of the African girl.	这就是这位非洲女孩的梦想
Several years ago, there was one African girl.	几年前 有一个非洲女孩
This girl had a son who wished for a piece of doughnut because he was extremely hungry.	这个女孩有个儿子 他想要一块甜甜圈 因为他饿到了极点
Angry, frustrated, really upset about the state of her society and the state of her children, this young girl started a movement, a movement of ordinary women banding together to build peace.	愤怒，沮丧 不安 带着对她的社会 和她的孩子现状的不满 这个年轻女孩发起了一个活动 一项由普通女性 团结起来 共建和平的活动
I will fulfill the wish.	我要实现这个愿望
This is another African girl's wish.	这是另一个非洲女孩的愿望
I failed to fulfill the wish of those two girls.	我没能完成这两个非洲女孩的愿望
I failed to do this.	我失败了
These were the things that were going through the head of this other young woman -- I failed, I failed, I failed.	在其他年轻女性脑海里有着这些的想法—— 我失败了，我失败了，我失败了
So I will do this.	所以我会这么做
Women came out, protested a brutal dictator, fearlessly spoke.	女性站出来 抗议残暴的独裁者 无所畏惧地发表言论
Not only did the wish of a piece of doughnut come true, the wish of peace came true.	不但一块甜甜圈的愿望成真了 和平的愿望也成真了
This young woman wished also to go to school.	这个年轻女性 也希望能上学
She went to school.	她上了学
This young woman wished for other things to happen, it happened for her.	这位年轻女性希望也能达成其它改变 它们发生了
Today, this young woman is me, a Nobel laureate.	今天，这个年轻女性就是我 一个诺贝尔奖获得者
I'm now on a journey to fulfill the wish, in my tiny capacity, of little African girls -- the wish of being educated.	我正在路上 在实现愿望的路上 以我的微薄之力 实现让非洲小女孩 接受教育的梦想
We set up a foundation.	我们设立了一个基金会
We're giving full four-year scholarships to girls from villages that we see with potential.	我们提供四年全额奖学金 给那些来自农村的，我们认为有潜力的女孩
I don't have much to ask of you.	我不会向你们提很多要求
I've also been to places in this U.S., and I know that girls in this country also have wishes, a wish for a better life somewhere in the Bronx, a wish for a better life somewhere in downtown L.A., a wish for a better life somewhere in Texas, a wish for a better life somewhere in New York, a wish for a better life somewhere in New Jersey.	我也到过美国的一些地方 我知道这个国家的女孩 也有愿望 在纽约布朗克斯区的某个女孩希望有更好的生活 在洛杉矶市中心的某个女孩 希望有更好的生活 在德克萨斯的某个女孩希望有更好的生活 在纽约的某个女孩希望有更好的生活 在新泽西的某个女孩 希望有更好的生活
Will you journey with me to help that girl, be it an African girl or an American girl or a Japanese girl, fulfill her wish, fulfill her dream, achieve that dream?	你们会和我一起上路 去帮助那个女孩 不论她是非洲女孩，美国女孩 还是日本女孩 实现她的愿望 实现她的梦想 达成那个梦想吗？
Because all of these great innovators and inventors that we've talked to and seen over the last few days are also sitting in tiny corners in different parts of the world, and all they're asking us to do is create that space to unlock the intelligence, unlock the passion, unlock all of the great things that they hold within themselves.	正因为这些 我们这些天 交谈过和看到的 伟大的改革者和创新者 现在也坐在 世界的各个角落 而他们要求我们做的 就是创造一个空间 来释放智慧 释放激情 释放她们内在的 伟大潜能
Let's journey together. Let's journey together.	让我们同行，让我们同行
Thank you.	谢谢
Thank you so much.	克里斯·安德森：非常感谢你
Right now in Liberia, what do you see as the main issue that troubles you?	现在在利比里亚 你认为 最棘手的是什么问题
LG: I've been asked to lead the Liberian Reconciliation Initiative.	莱伊曼·古博薇：我被安排去领导 "利比里亚调停协议"的进行
As part of my work, I'm doing these tours in different villages and towns -- 13, 15 hours on dirt roads -- and there is no community that I've gone into that I haven't seen intelligent girls.	我的工作之一 就是前往 各个村庄和城镇—— 在泥路上奔波13, 15小时—— 在我去的每一个社区 我都看到聪明的女孩
But sadly, the vision of a great future, or the dream of a great future, is just a dream, because you have all of these vices.	但不幸的是 对美好未来的展望 对美好未来的梦想 不过是一个梦 因为人们心中的邪念
Teen pregnancy, like I said, is epidemic.	正如我刚说过的，少女怀孕屡见不鲜
So what troubles me is that I was at that place and somehow I'm at this place, and I just don't want to be the only one at this place.	所以困扰我的 是我曾身在那样的地方 而现在我却站在这个讲台上 我不希望自己是唯一一个 能站在这个讲台上的女孩
I'm looking for ways for other girls to be with me.	我正在寻找 让其他女孩像我一样站在这里的方法
I want to look back 20 years from now and see that there's another Liberian girl, Ghanaian girl, Nigerian girl, Ethiopian girl standing on this TED stage.	我希望在二十年后回首时 我们会看到另一个利比里亚女孩 加纳女孩，尼日利亚女孩，埃塞俄比亚女孩 站在TED讲台上
And maybe, just maybe, saying, "Because of that Nobel laureate I'm here today."	也许，仅仅是也许，她会说 因为那个诺贝尔奖得主 今天我才能站在这里
So I'm troubled when I see them like there's no hope.	所以我很担心 因为我看到她们似乎失去了希望
But I'm also not pessimistic, because I know it doesn't take a lot to get them charged up.	但我并不悲观 因为我知道不需要花太多力气 就能让她们重鼓勇气
And in the last year, tell us one hopeful thing that you've seen happening.	克里斯·安德森：以去年来说， 请你告诉我们一件 你亲眼目睹的，令人充满希望的事
LG: I can tell you many hopeful things that I've seen happening.	莱伊曼·古博薇：我可以告诉你们许多我亲眼目睹的 振奋人心的事
But in the last year, where President Sirleaf comes from, her village, we went there to work with these girls.	但是去年 我们去当瑟利夫总统的故乡，她的村子 我们去那儿帮助这些女孩
And we could not find 25 girls in high school.	我们看到只有不到25个女孩 在上高中
All of these girls went to the gold mine, and they were predominantly prostitutes doing other things.	其他女孩都去金矿上 她们主要是去卖淫 或者做其他工作
We took 50 of those girls and we worked with them.	我们带回了50个女孩 给她们提供帮助
And this was at the beginning of elections.	当时是在选举的初期
This is one place where women were never -- even the older ones barely sat in the circle with the men.	这是一个女性从来都不 连年长的女性也是 几乎不公开和男人坐在一起
These girls banded together and formed a group and launched a campaign for voter registration.	这些女孩团结在一起，组成一个团体 发起了一项运动 争取选票权登记
This is a real rural village.	这是个非常偏僻的农村
And the theme they used was: "Even pretty girls vote."	她们活动的主题是 "连漂亮女孩也要投票。"
They were able to mobilize young women.	她们成功动员了年轻女性
But not only did they do that, they went to those who were running for seats to ask them, "What is it that you will give the girls of this community when you win?"	但是她们做的不仅仅是这些 她们还找到竞选人 问他们 你当选后会给这个社区的女孩 带来什么？
And one of the guys who already had a seat was very -- because Liberia has one of the strongest rape laws, and he was one of those really fighting in parliament to overturn that law because he called it barbaric.	其中的一个竞选人 已经担任了公职，他非常地—— 因为利比里亚有最严厉的强暴法 而他是在国会中力争的人之一 要求推翻强暴法 因为他认为这个法律太野蛮
Rape is not barbaric, but the law, he said, was barbaric.	他说，强暴并不野蛮，但这个法律是野蛮的
And when the girls started engaging him, he was very hostile towards them.	当这些女孩开始与他交锋时 他对她们很有敌意
These little girls turned to him and said, "We will vote you out of office."	这些小女孩对他说 "我们要投票把你赶下台去。"
He's out of office today.	他现在已经下台了。
Leymah, thank you. Thank you so much for coming to TED.	克里斯·安德森：莱伊曼，谢谢。 非常感谢你来到TED。
LG: You're welcome.	莱伊曼·古博薇：不用谢。（克里斯·安德森：谢谢。）
Hi. So I'd like to talk a little bit about the people who make the things we use every day: our shoes, our handbags, our computers and cell phones.	嗨。今天我想来探讨一下 这些为我们制造日常用品的人们： 例如我们的鞋子，手提包，电脑，还有手机。
Now, this is a conversation that often calls up a lot of guilt.	这个话题时常让我们觉得很内疚。
Imagine the teenage farm girl who makes less than a dollar an hour stitching your running shoes, or the young Chinese man who jumps off a rooftop after working overtime assembling your iPad.	想象一下，一个年轻的农村女孩给你缝制跑步鞋 可每个小时还赚不到一美金， 又或者是那个加班为你组装iPad的中国小伙子 在加班之后从楼上跳了下来。
We, the beneficiaries of globalization, seem to exploit these victims with every purchase we make, and the injustice feels embedded in the products themselves.	我们，是全球化的受益者， 可每笔交易却似乎都是在剥削那些受害者， 而这种不公平 似乎也深深烙印在这些产品之中。
After all, what's wrong with a world in which a worker on an iPhone assembly line can't even afford to buy one?	总而言之，这个世界到底怎么了？ 一个在组装iphone生产线上的员工却买不起一台iphone？
It's taken for granted that Chinese factories are oppressive, and that it's our desire for cheap goods that makes them so.	人们理所当然地认为，中国的工厂就是应该被压榨的， 因为我们渴求便宜的产品 造成了这样的局面。
So, this simple narrative equating Western demand and Chinese suffering is appealing, especially at a time when many of us already feel guilty about our impact on the world, but it's also inaccurate and disrespectful.	很显然，西方社会的需求 和中国人对他们遭遇的申诉被连接在一起， 尤其是当我们中的很多人已经因为我们对世界影响 而感到了内疚， 然而，这是不正确的，也是不尊重他人的。
We must be peculiarly self-obsessed to imagine that we have the power to drive tens of millions of people on the other side of the world to migrate and suffer in such terrible ways.	我们极其自恋地去想象着 我们有力量去操控地球另一边 千万的人民，让他们以如此可怕的方式 去遭受痛苦或者迁移。
In fact, China makes goods for markets all over the world, including its own, thanks to a combination of factors: its low costs, its large and educated workforce, and a flexible manufacturing system that responds quickly to market demands.	事实上，中国制造的产品遍布全球， 也包括他们自己的市场，这要归结于许多因素的综合： 低成本，大量受过教育的劳动力， 还有有弹性的工作制度 这些都快速地迎合了市场的需求。
By focusing so much on ourselves and our gadgets, we have rendered the individuals on the other end into invisibility, as tiny and interchangeable as the parts of a mobile phone.	我们因为太专注于我们自身和产品上， 所以忽视了产业链另一端的个体的存在 将他们看成是可以随时被替换的，微小的 像手机零件那样。
Chinese workers are not forced into factories because of our insatiable desire for iPods.	中国工人并不是因为我们对于iPods的无限渴求 而被迫进入工厂的。
They choose to leave their homes in order to earn money, to learn new skills, and to see the world.	他们选择离乡背井，是为了赚钱， 为了学习新的技能，以及为了看看这个世界。
In the ongoing debate about globalization, what's been missing is the voices of the workers themselves.	在对全球化发展趋势的辩论中 我们缺失的，是聆听工人们自己的声音。
Here are a few.	以下就是一些例子。
Bao Yongxiu: "My mother tells me to come home and get married, but if I marry now, before I have fully developed myself, I can only marry an ordinary worker, so I'm not in a rush."	包永秀说："我妈妈让我回家结婚 但是如果我还没有让自己得到充分的发展 就结婚，我只能嫁给一个平凡的工人， 所以我根本不着急。"
Chen Ying: "When I went home for the new year, everyone said I had changed. They asked me, what did you do that you have changed so much?	陈颖说："我过年回家的时候 每个人都说我变了，他们问我： 你怎么会有这么大的改变？
I told them that I studied and worked hard. If you tell them more, they won't understand anyway."	我告诉他们，我很努力地学习和工作， 即便你想给他们讲更多，他们反正也不能理解。"
Wu Chunming: "Even if I make a lot of money, it won't satisfy me.	吴春明： "即使我赚了很多钱 也无法满足我自己。
Just to make money is not enough meaning in life."	赚钱并不是生活全部的意义。"
Xiao Jin: "Now, after I get off work, I study English, because in the future, our customers won't be only Chinese, so we must learn more languages."	肖金说： "现在我下班以后，就会去学英语 因为在不久的将来，我们的客户将不仅仅是中国人， 所以，我们需要学习更多的语言。"
All of these speakers, by the way, are young women, 18 or 19 years old.	以上的话，都是出自一些年轻女孩的口， 她们仅仅18、19岁。
So I spent two years getting to know assembly line workers like these in the south China factory city called Dongguan.	因此，我花了两年时间去了解流水工作线上的工人们 例如在中国南部的一个工业城市——东莞。
Certain subjects came up over and over: how much money they made, what kind of husband they hoped to marry, whether they should jump to another factory or stay where they were.	有一些主要的问题不断的重复着： 他们到底赚了多少钱， 她们想要嫁给怎样的人， 他们是否想要跳槽 还是留在一个工厂内。
Other subjects came up almost never, including living conditions that to me looked close to prison life: 10 or 15 workers in one room, 50 people sharing a single bathroom, days and nights ruled by the factory clock.	另一些话题，则几乎不被提起 例如：在我眼中如牢狱般的生活条件 10-15个工人住在一个房间里， 50个人公用一个厕所， 日以继夜地按照工厂的要求来作息。
Everyone they knew lived in similar circumstances, and it was still better than the dormitories and homes of rural China.	他们每一个人都知道，即便是住在如此的环境里面 也会比他们在中国农村的老家的条件 好得多
The workers rarely spoke about the products they made, and they often had great difficulty explaining what exactly they did.	工人们很少谈论他们制造的产品， 他们往往很难解释清楚 他们到底做了什么。
When I asked Lu Qingmin, the young woman I got to know best, what exactly she did on the factory floor, she said something to me in Chinese that sounded like "qiu xi."	我访问了吕清民 这个年轻的女孩是我最了解的， 我问她她在工厂里到底从事什么工作 她用中文告诉我，听起来像是 "秋西。"
Only much later did I realize that she had been saying "QC," or quality control.	很久以后，我才知道她说的是 "QC"，也就是质量监控。
She couldn't even tell me what she did on the factory floor.	她竟然都不能告诉我她在工厂里做的是什么。
All she could do was parrot a garbled abbreviation in a language she didn't even understand.	她能做的就只是模仿一个英文缩写的发音 而这个语言是她根本就不懂的。
Karl Marx saw this as the tragedy of capitalism, the alienation of the worker from the product of his labor.	马克思认为这就是资本主义的悲哀 疏远了工人与他们所制造的产品。
Unlike, say, a traditional maker of shoes or cabinets, the worker in an industrial factory has no control, no pleasure, and no true satisfaction or understanding in her own work.	与传统的鞋匠或者木匠不同， 工人在工厂没有控制权， 在她所做的工作中，没有快乐， 没有真正的满足或理解。
But like so many theories that Marx arrived at sitting in the reading room of the British Museum, he got this one wrong.	但同许多马克思 坐在英国图书馆的阅读室里想出来理论一样， 这一点，他错了。
Just because a person spends her time making a piece of something does not mean that she becomes that, a piece of something.	仅仅因为一个人用她的时间 去制造一件物品，并不代表 她就变成了这件物品。
What she does with the money she earns, what she learns in that place, and how it changes her, these are the things that matter.	她用她赚的钱去做了什么 她在那个地方学到了什么技能，以及她如何被改变 这些才是重要的。
What a factory makes is never the point, and the workers could not care less who buys their products.	一个工厂制造什么并非重点， 工人们也不在乎谁买了他们制造的产品。
Journalistic coverage of Chinese factories, on the other hand, plays up this relationship between the workers and the products they make.	记者报道了关于中国工厂的新闻 另一方面，也强调了 工人与产品之间的联系。
Many articles calculate: How long would it take for this worker to work in order to earn enough money to buy what he's making?	很多文章都在计算： 这些工人要工作多久，赚来的钱 才够买一件他们制作的产品？
For example, an entry-level-line assembly line worker in China in an iPhone plant would have to shell out two and a half months' wages for an iPhone.	举个例子，一个初级组装生产线的工人 在中国组装iPhone配件 要倾其2个半月的工资才能买一台iPhone。
But how meaningful is this calculation, really?	但说真的，这些计算有任何意义吗？
For example, I recently wrote an article in The New Yorker magazine, but I can't afford to buy an ad in it.	再举个例子，我最近写了一篇文章 登在纽约客杂志上， 但是也供不起我在杂志上登一个广告。
But, who cares? I don't want an ad in The New Yorker, and most of these workers don't really want iPhones.	但是，谁在乎？我不需要在纽约客上登广告 其实，大部分的工人，也不是真的需要iPhone。
Their calculations are different.	他们的计算方式是不同的。
How long should I stay in this factory?	我在工厂要待多久？
How much money can I save?	我能存多少钱？
How much will it take to buy an apartment or a car, to get married, or to put my child through school?	我需要多少钱才能买个房子，买辆车， 才能结婚，或者足以送我的小孩去学校？
The workers I got to know had a curiously abstract relationship with the product of their labor.	这些我试图去了解的工人们 对他们和产品之间的联系有着很抽象的解读。
About a year after I met Lu Qingmin, or Min, she invited me home to her family village for the Chinese New Year.	大概在我遇到陆青敏，也就是小敏的一年后 她邀请我去她农村的家做客 过春节。
On the train home, she gave me a present: a Coach brand change purse with brown leather trim.	在回家的火车上，她给了我一个礼物： 一个棕色皮质的Coach牌零钱包。
I thanked her, assuming it was fake, like almost everything else for sale in Dongguan.	我谢了她，虽然我很自然地认为这应该是个山寨的产品， 就好像东莞在出售的大部分产品一样。
After we got home, Min gave her mother another present: a pink Dooney &amp; Bourke handbag, and a few nights later, her sister was showing off a maroon LeSportsac shoulder bag.	回家以后，小敏给了她妈妈另一个礼物： 一个Dooney &amp;amp; Bourke牌的粉色手提包， 几天以后，她的姐姐正在展示 一个红褐色的LeSportsac单肩包。
Slowly it was dawning on me that these handbags were made by their factory, and every single one of them was authentic.	慢慢地，我好想明白了 这些东西都是她们工厂生产的 每一件东西，都是正品
Min's sister said to her parents, "In America, this bag sells for 320 dollars."	小敏的姐姐告诉她父母 "在美国，这个包要卖320美金。"
Her parents, who are both farmers, looked on, speechless.	她的农民父母看了看，无言以对。
"And that's not all -- Coach is coming out with a new line, 2191," she said. "One bag will sell for 6,000."	还有，Coach正在推出一系列新产品2191 她说："这个好像要卖6000。"
She paused and said, "I don't know if that's 6,000 yuan or 6,000 American dollars, but anyway, it's 6,000."	她停顿了一下："我不知道是6000人民币，还是 6000美元，无论如何都是6000啦。"
Min's sister's boyfriend, who had traveled home with her for the new year, said, "It doesn't look like it's worth that much."	小敏姐姐的男友也回到家 与她一起过年， 他说："看起来不值这么多钱。"
Min's sister turned to him and said, "Some people actually understand these things. You don't understand shit."	小敏的姐姐对他说："有的人 就是懂这些东西，你懂啥。"
In Min's world, the Coach bags had a curious currency.	在小敏的世界里，Coach包包有一个很奇怪的价值。
They weren't exactly worthless, but they were nothing close to the actual value, because almost no one they knew wanted to buy one, or knew how much it was worth.	它们虽然不是一文不值，但是相比起它们的实际价值 还是相差甚远，因为她们所结识的人里面 几乎没有人想要买，也没有人知道这值多少钱。
Once, when Min's older sister's friend got married, she brought a handbag along as a wedding present.	有一次，小敏大姐的一个朋友结婚 她带着一个手提包作为给新人的礼物。
Another time, after Min had already left the handbag factory, her younger sister came to visit, bringing two Coach Signature handbags as gifts.	又一次，小敏已经离开手提包的工厂了 但她的小妹妹来看她的时候 带了两个经典款Coach作为礼物。
I looked in the zippered pocket of one, and I found a printed card in English, which read, "An American classic.	我打开一个有拉链的口袋 看到一张卡片写着一些英文： "美国经典。
In 1941, the burnished patina of an all-American baseball glove inspired the founder of Coach to create a new collection of handbags from the same luxuriously soft gloved-hand leather.	1941年那些表皮磨光的 美国棒球手套 启发了Coach的创始人 促使其研发了一个新系列的手提包： 奢华、柔软的的表面和手套的皮质一样。
Six skilled leatherworkers crafted 12 Signature handbags with perfect proportions and a timeless flair.	6名技巧纯熟的皮革工人制造12只经典款手提包 他们有着精准而快速的手艺。
They were fresh, functional, and women everywhere adored them. A new American classic was born."	这些手提包新颖，具有相当的功能性，世界各地的女人都喜欢 一个新的美国经典诞生了。"
I wonder what Karl Marx would have made of Min and her sisters.	我想知道马克思是否会被小敏 和她的姐妹所影响。
Their relationship with the product of their labor was more complicated, surprising and funny than he could have imagined.	她们与产品之间的关系 更复杂、惊奇而且有趣 这都超出他的想象。
And yet, his view of the world persists, and our tendency to see the workers as faceless masses, to imagine that we can know what they're really thinking.	但是，他对这个世界的观点没变，而我们却将 这些工人们看成是一群上不了台面的群体， 想象一下，假如我们可以了解工人们的真实想法。
The first time I met Min, she had just turned 18 and quit her first job on the assembly line of an electronics factory.	我第一次见到小敏的时候，她刚满18岁 她刚刚辞去在一家电子设备工厂的 组装生产线的工作。
Over the next two years, I watched as she switched jobs five times, eventually landing a lucrative post in the purchasing department of a hardware factory.	接下来的两年，我看着她换了5次工作， 最后固定在一个比较赚钱的职位 是在一个硬件工厂的采购部门。
Later, she married a fellow migrant worker, moved with him to his village, gave birth to two daughters, and saved enough money to buy a secondhand Buick for herself and an apartment for her parents.	不久，她嫁给了一个打工仔， 然后移居到了他的村子， 生了两个女儿， 他们存够了钱给她买了一辆二手别克车 给她的父母买了房子。
She recently returned to Dongguan on her own to take a job in a factory that makes construction cranes, temporarily leaving her husband and children back in the village.	最近她独自回到东莞 在一个起重机工厂里找了份工作， 暂时与她村里的丈夫和孩子 分居两地。
In a recent email to me, she explained, "A person should have some ambition while she is young so that in old age she can look back on her life and feel that it was not lived to no purpose."	在最近的一封邮件里，她解释： "人们年轻的时候，应该有所抱负 那么在他们老的时候，回首过去 就不会觉得这一生都毫无意义。"
Across China, there are 150 million workers like her, one third of them women, who have left their villages to work in the factories, the hotels, the restaurants and the construction sites of the big cities.	在中国，有1亿5千万像她一样的工人， 其中三分之一，是离乡背井的女性， 她们在工厂、酒店、餐厅 或者是大城市的建筑工地工作。
Together, they make up the largest migration in history, and it is globalization, this chain that begins in a Chinese farming village and ends with iPhones in our pockets and Nikes on our feet and Coach handbags on our arms that has changed the way these millions of people work and marry and live and think.	这么算来，是她们创造了历史上一个庞大的人口迁移的数字， 而这个产业链的起点，就是"全球化"的风靡 从中国的农村 到最终进入我们口袋里的iPhone和脚上的耐克 还有手中的Coach手提包 这改变了数百万人的 工作、婚姻、生活和思想。
Very few of them would want to go back to the way things used to be.	他们其中很少有人 愿意回到过去的生活。
When I first went to Dongguan, I worried that it would be depressing to spend so much time with workers.	我第一次去东莞的时候，我很担心 担心与工人相处的时间会很压抑沮丧。
I also worried that nothing would ever happen to them, or that they would have nothing to say to me.	我也担心他们永远不会改变， 或者他们也没有什么能对我说的。
Instead, I found young women who were smart and funny and brave and generous.	然而，我发现那些年轻的女性都很聪明、风趣 而且勇敢、大方。
By opening up their lives to me, they taught me so much about factories and about China and about how to live in the world.	通过向我展示她们的生活， 她们教给我很多关于工厂 关于中国，以及如何生存在这个世界的道理。
This is the Coach purse that Min gave me on the train home to visit her family.	这就是小敏在回家的火车上 送给我的Coach钱包。
I keep it with me to remind me of the ties that tie me to the young women I wrote about, ties that are not economic but personal in nature, measured not in money but in memories.	我一直保存着它，由此提醒着我与这些 我记录过的年轻女生的联系， 这些并不是因为经济而是因为个人情感的联系， 价值并不是在于金钱而是记忆。
This purse is also a reminder that the things that you imagine, sitting in your office or in the library, are not how you find them when you actually go out into the world.	这个钱包也是一个提醒， 你坐在办公室或图书馆里时所想象的东西 和你走出去真正接触的东西 并不一样。
Thank you.	谢谢。
Thank you, Leslie, that was an insight that a lot of us haven't had before.	谢谢，Leslie，真的很有见地 我们中很多人从未这么思考过。
But I'm curious. If you had a minute, say, with Apple's head of manufacturing, what would you say?	但是我很好奇，如果你有一分钟时间 对Apple制造商的领导人说一些话 你会说什么？
Leslie Chang: One minute?	一分钟？
One minute.	是的，一分钟。
LC: You know, what really impressed me about the workers is how much they're self-motivated, self-driven, resourceful, and the thing that struck me, what they want most is education, to learn, because most of them come from very poor backgrounds.	你们知道吗，那些工人们真正启发我的 是他们的自我激励、自我推进 还有足智多谋，都深深警醒着我 他们最想要的是教育，是学习 只是因为他们大部分有着穷困的家庭背景。
They usually left school when they were in 7th or 8th grade.	他们通常中学就离开学校了。
Their parents are often illiterate, and then they come to the city, and they, on their own, at night, during the weekends, they'll take a computer class, they'll take an English class, and learn really, really rudimentary things, you know, like how to type a document in Word, or how to say really simple things in English.	他们的父母大都是文盲， 他们独自来到城市打拼 晚上或者周末，他们去学习电脑的课程， 或者是学英语， 就是学一些真的非常非常基本的东西，你知道吗？ 例如如何在Word里面打字 或者用英语讲一些简单的事情。
So, if you really want to help these workers, start these small, very focused, very pragmatic classes in these schools, and what's going to happen is, all your workers are going to move on, but hopefully they'll move on into higher jobs within Apple, and you can help their social mobility and their self-improvement.	所以，如果你们想要帮助那些工人 开展一些小型、集中、基础的课程 这会带来的结果就是 你的工人得到了提升， 但是希望，他们也会晋升到Apple更高的职位中 你可以帮助他们适应社会流动性 帮助他们得到自我的提升。
When you talk to workers, that's what they want.	当你于工人们交谈，你就会知道这就是他们所要的。
They do not say, "I want better hot water in the showers.	他们不会说：我想要浴室里有更热的水
I want a nicer room. I want a TV set."	我想要一间更好的房间，想要一个电视
I mean, it would be nice to have those things, but that's not why they're in the city, and that's not what they care about.	我的意思是，有这些东西固然很好 但是他们来到这个城市不是为了这些， 而且他们根本不在乎。
Was there a sense from them of a narrative that things were kind of tough and bad, or was there a narrative of some kind of level of growth, that things over time were getting better?	他们有没有说过 生活环境真的很艰苦，或者是 自我得到提升以后，这些东西 也会得到相应改善？
LC: Oh definitely, definitely. I mean, you know, it was interesting, because I spent basically two years hanging out in this city, Dongguan, and over that time, you could see immense change in every person's life: upward, downward, sideways, but generally upward.	当然，当然了。我是说，大家都知道 这其实很有趣，我花了大概2年时间 在东莞生活 在这个时间里面，你可以看到每个人的生活 都在起着巨大的变化：变得更好，变坏，或者偏离轨道 但总体来说，都是在进步的。
If you spend enough time, it's upward, and I met people who had moved to the city 10 years ago, and who are now basically urban middle class people, so the trajectory is definitely upward.	只要你花足够的时间，就会变好 如果一个人十年前来到城市 现在应该已经成为城市的中层阶级， 所以总体趋势一定是变好的。
It's just hard to see when you're suddenly sucked into the city. It looks like everyone's poor and desperate, but that's not really how it is.	只不过你初入城市的时候 一下子还无法感知。看起来好像每个人都很穷 很失落，但这都不是真实的。
Certainly, the factory conditions are really tough, and it's nothing you or I would want to do, but from their perspective, where they're coming from is much worse, and where they're going is hopefully much better, and I just wanted to give that context of what's going on in their minds, not what necessarily is going on in yours.	可以肯定，工厂的环境十分艰苦 在坐的你我都不会愿意前往， 但是比起他们所来自的地方，站在工人的角度来看 这都是值得的，他们也希望 所去的地方这些都会得到改善，我只想 把他们所想的东西陈述出来 而这些并不等同于你们所认定的东西。
Thanks so much for your talk.	感谢你的演讲。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
The things we make have one supreme quality -- they live longer than us.	我们所制造的物件 具有一项极其卓越的优点 它们比我们活得久
We perish, they survive; we have one life, they have many lives, and in each life they can mean different things.	我们终将消逝，它们则万世长存 我们只有一世, 它们却有许多 而且每一世都有不同的意义
Which means that, while we all have one biography, they have many.	这就意味着，我们只能写一次传记 而它们却可以写很多次
I want this morning to talk about the story, the biography -- or rather the biographies -- of one particular object, one remarkable thing.	今早，我想谈谈 一件特殊的文物身上的故事，它的传记 它每一世的传记 这是件非凡的文物
It doesn't, I agree, look very much.	我同意，它看起来 并不起眼
It's about the size of a rugby ball.	差不多是一只橄榄球的大小
It's made of clay, and it's been fashioned into a cylinder shape, covered with close writing and then baked dry in the sun.	用陶土制成 先做成一个 圆柱的形状 刻满楔形文字后 再在阳光下烘干
And as you can see, it's been knocked about a bit, which is not surprising because it was made two and a half thousand years ago and was dug up in 1879.	你可以看到 它上面有破损的痕迹 这并不奇怪 因为它已有超过2500年的历史了 它是在1879年 被挖掘出来的
But today, this thing is, I believe, a major player in the politics of the Middle East.	但是今天 我相信 它在中东地区的政治领域 也扮演着重要的角色
And it's an object with fascinating stories and stories that are by no means over yet.	在它身上 发生了很多精彩的故事 有些故事到现在也没有完结
The story begins in the Iran-Iraq war and that series of events that culminated in the invasion of Iraq by foreign forces, the removal of a despotic ruler and instant regime change.	故事始于 两伊战争 以及随后一系列的事件 累积起来 针对伊拉克的 外国武装的入侵 暴君被推翻 政局发生骤变
And I want to begin with one episode from that sequence of events that most of you would be very familiar with, Belshazzar's feast -- because we're talking about the Iran-Iraq war of 539 BC.	我想从 那一系列事件中的一个章节开始说起 你们中的大多数对此不会陌生 那就是伯萨沙王的宴会 因为我们说的这场两伊战争 发生在公元前539年
And the parallels between the events of 539 BC and 2003 and in between are startling.	而公元前539年 和2003年发生的事件 两者之间有 惊人的相似之处
What you're looking at is Rembrandt's painting, now in the National Gallery in London, illustrating the text from the prophet Daniel in the Hebrew scriptures.	你现在看到的是伦勃朗的油画作品 现陈列于伦敦的国家美术馆 这幅画阐释了希伯来圣经中的 但以理书
And you all know roughly the story.	你们都知道故事的大概
Belshazzar, the son of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar who'd conquered Israel, sacked Jerusalem and captured the people and taken the Jews back to Babylon.	伯萨沙是尼布甲尼撒的儿子 尼布甲尼撒征服了以色列，洗劫了耶路撒冷 俘虏了那里的人民 将犹太人带到了巴比伦
Not only the Jews, he'd taken the temple vessels.	不仅仅是犹太人，他还带回了圣殿的器皿
He'd ransacked, desecrated the temple.	他将圣殿洗劫一空，还亵渎了神明
And the great gold vessels of the temple in Jerusalem had been taken to Babylon.	来自耶路撒冷圣殿中的金制器皿 被带回了巴比伦
Belshazzar, his son, decides to have a feast.	他的儿子伯萨沙 决定举办一场盛宴
And in order to make it even more exciting, he added a bit of sacrilege to the rest of the fun, and he brings out the temple vessels.	为了让宴会更加刺激 他又加了点亵渎神灵的余兴节目 他拿出了圣殿器皿
He's already at war with the Iranians, with the king of Persia.	那时他已与伊朗人开战 和波斯国王也打得不可开交
And that night, Daniel tells us, at the height of the festivities a hand appeared and wrote on the wall, "You are weighed in the balance and found wanting, and your kingdom is handed over to the Medes and the Persians."	那天晚上，但以理告诉我们 在宴会达到高潮时 出现了一只手在墙上写字 你被称在天平里，显出你的亏欠 你的国分裂 归与玛代人和波斯人
And that very night Cyrus, king of the Persians, entered Babylon and the whole regime of Belshazzar fell.	就在那个晚上 波斯国王塞鲁士攻入巴比伦 整个伯萨沙政权覆灭了
It is, of course, a great moment in the history of the Jewish people.	当然 这是犹太人历史上 一个伟大的时刻
It's a great story. It's story we all know.	这是个精彩的故事，我们都知道
"The writing on the wall" is part of our everyday language.	"墙上之字" 这个说法 已经成为我们的日常用语
What happened next was remarkable, and it's where our cylinder enters the story.	而接下来发生了 一件意义重大的事情 赛鲁士圆柱也在 此时出现而来
Cyrus, king of the Persians, has entered Babylon without a fight -- the great empire of Babylon, which ran from central southern Iraq to the Mediterranean, falls to Cyrus.	波斯国王赛鲁士 不费一兵一卒就进入了巴比伦 而伟大的巴比伦帝国 国土从伊拉克中南部 一直延伸到地中海 却落于赛鲁士之手
And Cyrus makes a declaration.	接着赛鲁士发表了声明
And that is what this cylinder is, the declaration made by the ruler guided by God who had toppled the Iraqi despot and was going to bring freedom to the people.	声明内容就刻在这个圆柱上 这是统治者受到神的指引而发表的声明 神推翻了伊拉克的独裁统治 并将自由带给人民
In ringing Babylonian -- it was written in Babylonian -- he says, "I am Cyrus, king of all the universe, the great king, the powerful king, king of Babylon, king of the four quarters of the world."	在包围巴比伦时 有巴比伦语这样写道 他说："我是赛鲁士，是整个宇宙的王 我是伟大的国王，是强盛的国王 我是巴比伦的国王，是世界之王"
They're not shy of hyperbole as you can see.	你看，他们夸张起来可真不害臊
This is probably the first real press release by a victorious army that we've got.	这可能是 由获胜方发表的第一场 真正意义上的 新闻发布会
And it's written, as we'll see in due course, by very skilled P.R. consultants.	我们后来看到 它被技巧娴熟的公关顾问们记录下来了
So the hyperbole is not actually surprising.	所以这里的夸张其实并不叫人惊讶
And what is the great king, the powerful king, the king of the four quarters of the world going to do?	那么这位伟大而强盛的 世界之王打算做些什么呢
He goes on to say that, having conquered Babylon, he will at once let all the peoples that the Babylonians -- Nebuchadnezzar and Belshazzar -- have captured and enslaved go free.	他接着说，征服巴比伦之后 他会立即让所有 被尼布甲尼撒和伯萨沙 俘虏和奴役的不同种族的人 获得自由
He'll let them return to their countries.	他会让他们回到自己的国家
And more important, he will let them all recover the gods, the statues, the temple vessels that had been confiscated.	更重要的是 他会让他们恢复信仰 并拿回 缴获的雕像 和圣殿器皿
All the peoples that the Babylonians had repressed and removed will go home, and they'll take with them their gods.	所有受到巴比伦人压迫 和被掳至巴比伦的人都将回家 他们将与他们的神一同回去
And they'll be able to restore their altars and to worship their gods in their own way, in their own place.	他们可以修复他们的祭坛 并以他们自己的方式 在属于他们的地方，祭拜他们的神
This is the decree, this object is the evidence for the fact that the Jews, after the exile in Babylon, the years they'd spent sitting by the waters of Babylon, weeping when they remembered Jerusalem, those Jews were allowed to go home.	这是就是当时颁布的法令 赛鲁士圆柱就是证据 证明了犹太人 被流放到巴比伦之后 好多年，他们都会坐在巴比伦的水畔 一想起耶路撒冷就会哭泣 那些犹太人被准许回家了
They were allowed to return to Jerusalem and to rebuild the temple.	他们被允许回到耶路撒冷 重建神庙
It's a central document in Jewish history.	这在犹太历史上 是一份核心文件
And the Book of Chronicles, the Book of Ezra in the Hebrew scriptures reported in ringing terms.	在希伯来圣经里的历代志和以斯拉记中 也清楚的记载着
This is the Jewish version of the same story.	下面是关于同一个故事的 犹太版本
"Thus said Cyrus, king of Persia, 'All the kingdoms of the earth have the Lord God of heaven given thee, and he has charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem.	"因此，波斯国王赛鲁士说 '上天的神耶和华天下万国赐给我， 又嘱咐我 在犹大的耶路撒冷为他建造一座殿宇
Who is there among you of his people?	你们中间凡是作为他的子民的
The Lord God be with him, and let him go up.'" "Go up" -- aaleh.	愿上帝与这人同在 你们要回归耶路撒冷建造他的神殿" "回归耶路撒冷"
The central element, still, of the notion of return, a central part of the life of Judaism.	这里的核心要素 仍然是回归 这也是犹太教教义的 核心部分
As you all know, that return from exile, the second temple, reshaped Judaism.	你们知道，结束流放回到耶路撒冷 和第二神殿 重塑了犹太教
And that change, that great historic moment, was made possible by Cyrus, the king of Persia, reported for us in Hebrew in scripture and in Babylonian in clay.	那次改变 那个伟大的历史时刻 是由波斯国王赛鲁士实现的 这一切在希伯来圣经中都有记载 也用巴比伦语刻在赛鲁士圆柱上
Two great texts, what about the politics?	这是两篇伟大的文献 那么政治上又如何呢
What was going on was the fundamental shift in Middle Eastern history.	那时所发生的事 是中东历史上一个根本性的转变
The empire of Iran, the Medes and the Persians, united under Cyrus, became the first great world empire.	伊朗，米底和波斯帝国 被赛鲁士统一 成为第一个伟大的世界帝国
Cyrus begins in the 530s BC.	赛鲁士于公元前530年左右开始统治
And by the time of his son Darius, the whole of the eastern Mediterranean is under Persian control.	到了他的儿子大流士的时期 整个东地中海 都处于波斯的统治之下
This empire is, in fact, the Middle East as we now know it, and it's what shapes the Middle East as we now know it.	事实上，这个帝国 也就是我们现在所熟知的中东 它形成了现在的中东地区
It was the largest empire the world had known until then.	在那个时期，它是世界上最大的帝国
Much more important, it was the first multicultural, multifaith state on a huge scale.	更重要的是 它是第一个 规模如此宏大的 多文化，多信仰的国家
And it had to be run in a quite new way.	所以必须采用新的方法来治理这个帝国
It had to be run in different languages.	必须采用多语言的治理方式
The fact that this decree is in Babylonian says one thing.	其实巴比伦语版本的法令说明了这一点
And it had to recognize their different habits, different peoples, different religions, different faiths.	还必须认识到人民的不同习俗 不同民族，不同宗教和不同信仰
All of those are respected by Cyrus.	所有这一切都受到赛鲁士的尊重
Cyrus sets up a model of how you run a great multinational, multifaith, multicultural society.	他建立了一个模式 即如何治理一个庞大的 多民族，多信仰和多文化的社会
And the result of that was an empire that included the areas you see on the screen, and which survived for 200 years of stability until it was shattered by Alexander.	他这样做的结果就是 这个帝国涵盖了你在屏幕上所看到的地区 并享有了长达200年的稳定 直到被亚历山大大帝推翻
It left a dream of the Middle East as a unit, and a unit where people of different faiths could live together.	它给中东的统一留下了一个梦 即不同信仰的人们 能够和平共处
The Greek invasions ended that.	然而希腊的入侵结束了这一切
And of course, Alexander couldn't sustain a government and it fragmented.	当然，亚历山大大帝无法维持一个政府 帝国变得四分五裂
But what Cyrus represented remained absolutely central.	但是赛鲁士所代表的意义 仍然保持绝对的核心地位
The Greek historian Xenophon wrote his book "Cyropaedia" promoting Cyrus as the great ruler.	希腊历史学家色诺芬 在他所著的《赛鲁士的教育》一书中 认为赛鲁士是一位伟大的统治者
And throughout European culture afterward, Cyrus remained the model.	且在之后的整个欧洲文化中 赛鲁士仍然是楷模
This is a 16th century image to show you how widespread his veneration actually was.	这个16世纪的形象 向你展示了人们对赛鲁士 是多么的崇敬
And Xenophon's book on Cyrus on how you ran a diverse society was one of the great textbooks that inspired the Founding Fathers of the American Revolution.	色诺芬关于赛鲁士 及如何治理一个多样化的社会的书 是对引领美国革命的国父们 起到激励作用的 最伟大的课本之一
Jefferson was a great admirer -- the ideals of Cyrus obviously speaking to those 18th century ideals of how you create religious tolerance in a new state.	杰弗逊就是其仰慕者之一 赛鲁士的典范 清楚的向18世纪的理念证明了 如何在一个新的国家 建立宗教宽容的氛围
Meanwhile, back in Babylon, things had not been going well.	现在让我们在回头看看巴比伦 情况并不好
After Alexander, the other empires, Babylon declines, falls into ruins, and all the traces of the great Babylonian empire are lost -- until 1879 when the cylinder is discovered by a British Museum exhibition digging in Babylon.	在亚历山大大帝建立新的国家之后 巴比伦开始衰落，化为一片废墟 所有关于伟大的巴比伦帝国的痕迹都遗落了 直到1879年 大英博物馆为了寻找展品 在巴比伦挖出赛鲁士圆柱为止
And it enters now another story.	现在它又引发了另一个故事
It enters that great debate in the middle of the 19th century: Are the scriptures reliable? Can we trust them?	它引发了19世纪中期 那场伟大的辩论 圣经可靠么？我们能够相信它么？
We only knew about the return of the Jews and the decree of Cyrus from the Hebrew scriptures.	我们只能 从希伯来圣经上得知 犹太人的回归和赛鲁士的法令
No other evidence.	再没有别的证据可以证明了
Suddenly, this appeared.	突然之间，这件文物出现了
And great excitement to a world where those who believed in the scriptures had had their faith in creation shaken by evolution, by geology, here was evidence that the scriptures were historically true.	对于那些相信圣经 却被进化论和地质学 动摇了对创世纪的信仰的人们来说 这是一项振奋人心的证据 它证明了 圣经在历史上的真实性
It's a great 19th century moment.	这是19世纪的一个伟大时刻
But -- and this, of course, is where it becomes complicated -- the facts were true, hurrah for archeology, but the interpretation was rather more complicated.	但是，这也让事情变得更加复杂 这些事实都是真的 对于考古学来说是个好消息 但对它的解读却越加复杂
Because the cylinder account and the Hebrew Bible account differ in one key respect.	因为圆柱上的描述与希伯来圣经上的描述 有一个关键的差异
The Babylonian cylinder is written by the priests of the great god of Bablyon, Marduk.	圆柱上的巴比伦语 是由信奉巴比伦的主神马杜克的 祭祀写就的
And, not surprisingly, they tell you that all this was done by Marduk.	所以他们告诉你这一切都是马杜克的功劳 这一点也不奇怪
"Marduk, we hold, called Cyrus by his name."	"马杜克，我们所信奉的神，召唤了赛鲁士"
Marduk takes Cyrus by the hand, calls him to shepherd his people and gives him the rule of Babylon.	马杜克拉着赛鲁士的手 告诉他要管理好人民 并赋予他治理巴比伦的权力
Marduk tells Cyrus that he will do these great, generous things of setting the people free.	马杜克告诉赛鲁士 他要做这些伟大而慷慨的事 来让人民自由
And this is why we should all be grateful to and worship Marduk.	这就是为什么我们都应对马杜克 心怀感激和崇敬
The Hebrew writers in the Old Testament, you will not be surprised to learn, take a rather different view of this.	而希伯来圣经的作者 则在旧约中 表达了完全不同的看法 这也不奇怪
For them, of course, it can't possibly by Marduk that made all this happen.	当然，对他们来说 不可能是马杜克
It can only be Jehovah.	只能是耶和华造就了这一切
And so in Isaiah, we have the wonderful texts giving all the credit of this, not to Marduk but to the Lord God of Israel -- the Lord God of Israel who also called Cyrus by name, also takes Cyrus by the hand and talks of him shepherding his people.	所以在以赛亚书中 我们能找到相应的文本 这一切的功劳 不属于马杜克 而属于以色列的主神耶和华 耶和华 也召唤了赛鲁士 也拉着赛鲁士的手 让他管理好人民
It's a remarkable example of two different priestly appropriations of the same event, two different religious takeovers of a political fact.	同一件事拥有两种不同宗教的描述 同一个政治事件 有两种不同宗教的解读 这是个绝佳的例子
God, we know, is usually on the side of the big battalions.	我们知道 神往往站在军事力量强大的那一方
The question is, which god was it?	但问题是，是哪一个神呢？
And the debate unsettles everybody in the 19th century to realize that the Hebrew scriptures are part of a much wider world of religion.	这场辩论 让19世纪时的每个人都觉得不安 它让人们认识到希伯来圣经 只是一个更广阔的宗教世界的一部分
And it's quite clear the cylinder is older than the text of Isaiah, and yet, Jehovah is speaking in words very similar to those used by Marduk.	很明显 赛鲁士圆柱比以赛亚书要更为古老 然而，耶和华所说的话 与马杜克所说的 非常相似
And there's a slight sense that Isaiah knows this, because he says, this is God speaking, of course, "I have called thee by thy name though thou hast not known me."	可能以赛亚对这个事件有些略微的了解 因为他说 当然， 是神说 "我召唤你 虽然你并不知道我"
I think it's recognized that Cyrus doesn't realize that he's acting under orders from Jehovah.	我认为这是承认 赛鲁士并未意识到 他所听从的是耶和华的命令
And equally, he'd have been surprised that he was acting under orders from Marduk.	他对于听从马杜克的命令也同样感到吃惊
Because interestingly, of course, Cyrus is a good Iranian with a totally different set of gods who are not mentioned in any of these texts.	因为，有趣的是 赛鲁士是一个不错的伊朗人 他另有一整套不同的神的体系 而这些神从未在任何文本中被提到过
That's 1879.	那场辩论是1879年的事
40 years on and we're in 1917, and the cylinder enters a different world.	40年之后 到了1917年 赛鲁士圆柱进入了一个不同的世界
This time, the real politics of the contemporary world -- the year of the Balfour Declaration, the year when the new imperial power in the Middle East, Britain, decides that it will declare a Jewish national home, it will allow the Jews to return.	这是一个属于当代世界 属于实际政治的年代 这一年发表了贝尔福宣言 这一年在中东崛起的新帝国 英帝国决定建立 一个犹太人的民族家园 它将准许 犹太人的回归
And the response to this by the Jewish population in Eastern Europe is rhapsodic.	身处东欧的犹太人 对于这件事的反应是狂热的
And across Eastern Europe, Jews display pictures of Cyrus and of George V side by side -- the two great rulers who have allowed the return to Jerusalem.	犹太人在整个东欧 将赛鲁士 和乔治五世的图画 并排展示 这两位伟大的统治者 准许犹太人回归耶路撒冷
And the Cyrus cylinder comes back into public view and the text of this as a demonstration of why what is going to happen after the war is over in 1918 is part of a divine plan.	赛鲁士圆柱也进入了公众的视野 其上的文本是神的旨意的一部分 它展示出 为什么战后发生的事 会在1918年结束
You all know what happened.	你们都知道发生了什么
The state of Israel is setup, and 50 years later, in the late 60s, it's clear that Britain's role as the imperial power is over.	以色列建国了 50年后，在20世纪60年代末 很明显，英国的帝国主义也走到了尽头
And another story of the cylinder begins.	另一个关于赛鲁士圆柱的故事开始了
The region, the U.K. and the U.S. decide, has to be kept safe from communism, and the superpower that will be created to do this would be Iran, the Shah.	英国和美国决定 民族家园地区不应受到共产主义的影响 而应起到保护作用的即将诞生的超级大国 将会是沙王所领导的伊朗
And so the Shah invents an Iranian history, or a return to Iranian history, that puts him in the center of a great tradition and produces coins showing himself with the Cyrus cylinder.	因此沙王创造了伊朗的历史 或者说是伊朗回归的历史 这让他成为一项伟大传统的核心 并发行 印有他自己 和赛鲁士圆柱的硬币
When he has his great celebrations in Persepolis, he summons the cylinder and the cylinder is lent by the British Museum, goes to Tehran, and is part of those great celebrations of the Pahlavi dynasty.	当他在波斯波利斯举办盛大的庆典时 他要求赛鲁士圆柱回到伊朗 大英博物馆遂借出圆柱，并送往德黑兰 这成为巴列维王朝 伟大庆典的一部分
Cyrus cylinder: guarantor of the Shah.	赛鲁士圆柱就是沙王统治的保证
10 years later, another story: Iranian Revolution, 1979.	10年后，另一个故事拉开了帷幕 即1979年的伊朗革命
Islamic revolution, no more Cyrus; we're not interested in that history, we're interested in Islamic Iran -- until Iraq, the new superpower that we've all decided should be in the region, attacks.	这是伊斯兰革命，与赛鲁士无关 我们对那段历史并不感兴趣 我们感兴趣的是具有伊斯兰特色的伊朗 直到伊拉克 那个我们都认为应属于该地区势力范围的新生力量 发动了攻击
Then another Iran-Iraq war.	这又是一场两伊战争
And it becomes critical for the Iranians to remember their great past, their great past when they fought Iraq and won.	伊朗人能否铭记他们那伟大的历史 就变得很关键 在那段历史中 他们战胜了伊拉克
It becomes critical to find a symbol that will pull together all Iranians -- Muslims and non-Muslims, Christians, Zoroastrians, Jews living in Iran, people who are devout, not devout.	至关重要的一点是找到一个象征 让所有伊朗人团结起来 让穆斯林，非穆斯林 基督徒，索罗亚斯德教教徒，居住在伊朗的犹太人 和那些无论虔诚与否的人都团结起来
And the obvious emblem is Cyrus.	显然，赛鲁士圆柱是最合适的象征
So when the British Museum and Tehran National Musuem cooperate and work together, as we've been doing, the Iranians ask for one thing only as a loan.	所以当大英博物馆和德黑兰国家博物馆 展开合作时，就像我们一直以来所做的那样 伊朗人只要求 借一样东西
It's the only object they want.	这是他们唯一想要的东西
They want to borrow the Cyrus cylinder.	他们想借赛鲁士圆柱
And last year, the Cyrus cylinder went to Tehran for the second time.	去年 赛鲁士圆柱被送往德黑兰 这已经是第二次了
It's shown being presented here, put into its case by the director of the National Museum of Tehran, one of the many women in Iran in very senior positions, Mrs. Ardakani.	它由德黑兰国家博物馆馆长 亲手放进盒子里 这位馆长是一位伊朗妇女，地位非常崇高 她就是艾达卡尼女士
It was a huge event.	这是一次隆重的事件
This is the other side of that same picture.	故事的另外一面
It's seen in Tehran by between one and two million people in the space of a few months.	在德黑兰 仅在几个月之内，就有一两百万的人 参观了居鲁士圆柱
This is beyond any blockbuster exhibition in the West.	这次展出的轰动效应 在西方前所未见
And it's the subject of a huge debate about what this cylinder means, what Cyrus means, but above all, Cyrus as articulated through this cylinder -- Cyrus as the defender of the homeland, the champion, of course, of Iranian identity and of the Iranian peoples, tolerant of all faiths.	这也是一场伟大辩论的主题 即赛鲁士圆柱意味着什么，赛鲁士又意味着什么 但首先，圆柱上所描写的赛鲁士 是家国的捍卫者 是为伊朗身份和伊朗人民 而奋斗的战士 他能够对所有的信仰都宽容相待
And in the current Iran, Zoroastrians and Christians have guaranteed places in the Iranian parliament, something to be very, very proud of.	在当今伊朗 索罗亚斯德教教徒和基督徒 在伊朗议会中的地位得以保障，这是非常值得自豪的
To see this object in Tehran, thousands of Jews living in Iran came to Tehran to see it.	为了在德黑兰一睹这件展品 居住在伊朗的数万犹太人 前往德黑兰
It became a great emblem, a great subject of debate about what Iran is at home and abroad.	赛鲁士圆柱成为了一个伟大的象征 一场辩论的主题 关于伊朗在国内外的意义
Is Iran still to be the defender of the oppressed?	伊朗仍然是被压迫人民的守护者么？
Will Iran set free the people that the tyrants have enslaved and expropriated?	伊朗仍会赋予那些 被暴君奴役和剥削的人们以自由么？
This is heady national rhetoric, and it was all put together in a great pageant launching the return.	这是令人振奋的全国性的讨论 它由一场 关于回归的隆重盛会 所激发
Here you see this out-sized Cyrus cylinder on the stage with great figures from Iranian history gathering to take their place in the heritage of Iran.	在这里，你能看到巨大的赛鲁士圆柱 与伊朗历史中的伟人一起在舞台上 明确他们在伊朗传统中 所占有的一席之地
It was a narrative presented by the president himself.	这是伊朗总统 亲口叙述的
And for me, to take this object to Iran, to be allowed to take this object to Iran was to be allowed to be part of an extraordinary debate led at the highest levels about what Iran is, what different Irans there are and how the different histories of Iran might shape the world today.	对我来说 将赛鲁士圆柱送回伊朗 或者说被允许将它送回伊朗 就是被允许成为 一场最高层次的 伟大辩论的一部分 这场辩论是关于伊朗是什么 到底有多少个不同的伊朗 以及伊朗不同的历史 将会对今天的世界产生怎样的影响
It's a debate that's still continuing, and it will continue to rumble, because this object is one of the great declarations of a human aspiration.	这场辩论仍在继续 它将继续产生轰动的效应 因为赛鲁士圆柱 是象征人类渴望的 伟大的声明之一
It stands with the American constitution.	它与美国的宪法具有同等地位
It certainly says far more about real freedoms than Magna Carta.	他当然比大宪章更能代表 真正的自由
It is a document that can mean so many things, for Iran and for the region.	它是一份文件，对伊朗和整个地区 都具有深远的意义
A replica of this is at the United Nations.	它的一份复制品 在联合国
In New York this autumn, it will be present when the great debates about the future of the Middle East take place.	今年秋天，在纽约 当关于中东未来的伟大辩论开始时 它将被展出
And I want to finish by asking you what the next story will be in which this object figures.	我想要问你们几个问题来结束我的演讲 赛鲁士圆柱将引发的下一个故事 又是什么呢？
It will appear, certainly, in many more Middle Eastern stories.	当然，赛鲁士圆柱 会出现在很多的中东故事里
And what story of the Middle East, what story of the world, do you want to see reflecting what is said, what is expressed in this cylinder?	那么你们希望看到 在中东 和世界上发生怎样的故事 来体现赛鲁士圆柱 所表达的意义呢？
The right of peoples to live together in the same state, worshiping differently, freely -- a Middle East, a world, in which religion is not the subject of division or of debate.	不同的民族有权利 在同一个国家生活 自由的供奉自己信仰的宗教 在中东这个世界里 宗教已不再是辩论 或引发分裂的主题了
In the world of the Middle East at the moment, the debates are, as you know, shrill.	目前的中东世界里 辩论仍然十分激烈
But I think it's possible that the most powerful and the wisest voice of all of them may well be the voice of this mute thing, the Cyrus cylinder.	但我认为很有可能 这些声音中最有力最明智的那一个 将会是来自 这件沉默的物品 来自赛鲁士圆柱
Thank you.	谢谢
	（鼓掌）
How many of you have seen the Alfred Hitchcock film "The Birds"?	这里有多少人看过希区柯克的电影《鸟》？
Any of you get really freaked out by that?	是不是认为那片子太过离奇了？
You might want to leave now.	要是那样的话，你现在可以走了。
So, this is a vending machine for crows.	大家看到的是一台专门为乌鸦设计的自动售货机。
And over the past few days, many of you have been asking me, "How did you come to this? How did you get started doing this?"	过去几天，人们都在问我同样的问题： "你怎么开始搞这玩意的？有什么吸引你的地方吗？"
And it started, as with many great ideas, or many ideas you can't get rid of anyway, at a cocktail party.	说实话，这玩意就像很多伟大的想法， 或者一些你无法在脑中驱散的想法一样， 是从一次鸡尾酒派对产生的。
About 10 years ago, I was at a cocktail party with a friend of mine, and we're sitting there, and he was complaining about the crows that he had seen that were all over his yard and making a big mess.	大概十年前，我与一个朋友在一个鸡尾酒派对上， 我们坐在那，他一直在抱怨乌鸦 乌鸦们把他的院子搞得一团糟。
And he was telling me that really, we ought to try and eradicate these things.	他那时很认真的跟我说，我们得想办法消灭这些鬼东西，
We gotta kill them because they're making a mess.	否则我们就不会有好日子过。
I said that was stupid, you know, maybe we should just train them to do something useful.	我跟他说，那才是坏主意呢， 咱们为何不训练它们，让乌鸦帮我们人类做一点有意义的事情？
And he said that was impossible.	他丢给我一句"那不可能"。
And I'm sure I'm in good company in finding that tremendously annoying -- when someone tells you it's impossible.	我相信绝对不只我一人觉得这极度恼人 ——当有人告诉你"那不可能"时。
So, I spent the next 10 years reading about crows in my spare time.	于是决定用10年的时间在我的业余时间专门研究乌鸦。
And after 10 years of this, my wife eventually said, "Look, you know, you gotta do this thing you've been talking about, and build the vending machine."	现在10年过去了，我妻子说， "好吧，你也该把它做出来了， 你不是一直说要给乌鸦们做一个自动售货机么？"
So I did.	于是我就把它做出来了。
But part of the reason that I found this interesting is that I started noticing that we are very aware of all the species that are going extinct on the planet as a result of human habitation expansion, and no one seems to be paying attention to all the species that are actually living -- that are surviving.	但我对这个项目感兴趣还有部分原因是因为 我开始注意到我们人类已经意识到 有很多物种因为人类无止尽的扩张 将会在地球上灭绝。 但貌似没人对那些 还生存在世上的物种有所关心——它们都还真正地活着。
And I'm talking specifically about synanthropic species, which are species that have adapted specifically for human ecologies, species like rats and cockroaches and crows.	这里我指的是那些长期与人共处， 并适应了人类生态系统的动物。 这样的动物包括老鼠、蟑螂、乌鸦。
And as I started looking at them, I was finding that they had hyper-adapted.	而假如你仔细观察的话，你会发现所有的这类动物都已经对人类社会产生了高度的适应性，
They'd become extremely adept at living with us.	并且随着继续与人生活在一起，它们的适应性还加变得更强。
And in return, we just tried to kill them all the time.	但反观人类呢，我们只是一直在不断屠杀它们而已。
And in doing so, we were breeding them for parasitism.	为了做到这点，人类用喂养的方式来让它们寄生于我们
We were giving them all sorts of reasons to adapt new ways.	我们给了动物们适应新环境的各种理由。
So, for example, rats are incredibly responsive breeders.	比如：老鼠的生育能力变得超强。
And cockroaches, as anyone who's tried to get rid of them knows, have become really immune to the poisons that we're using.	而蟑螂，逮过蟑螂的人都知道， 它们已经不在乎我们的"诱饵"了。
So, I thought, let's build something that's mutually beneficial.	于是我想，为何不制造出一些能让我们人类和这些"寄生虫"共同受益的东西呢？
Well, then let's build something that we can both benefit from, and find some way to make a new relationship with these species.	以此和这些动物建立一种新型的关系，一种互利的关系。 从而让人类找到一条与其共处的新路子。
And so I built the vending machine.	这就是我制作动物专用自动售货机的理由。
But the story of the vending machine is a little more interesting if you know more about crows.	不过如果你多了解一下乌鸦， 这个自动售货机的故事会更有趣。
It turns out that crows aren't just surviving with human beings -- they're actually really thriving.	乌鸦们不仅仅是在人类环境中'生存'得不错—— 事实上，他们活得还很精彩。
They're found everywhere on the planet except for the Arctic and the southern tip of South America.	你在地球上任何一处角落——除了两极和南美至南端—— 都可以见得到乌鸦。
And in all that area, they're only rarely found breeding more than five kilometers away from human beings.	通常它们的栖息地离人类居所 不出5公里。
So we may not think about them, but they're always around.	虽然你也许不会想到这一点， 可是它们确确实实一直都这么活在我们身边。
And not surprisingly, given the human population growth, more than half of the human population is living in cities now.	这也不奇怪，我们的地球上人口暴涨， 其中有半数以上居住在城市。
And out of those, nine-tenths of the human growth population is occurring in cities.	除此之外，90%的人口增长 就都发生在城市里——
We're seeing a population boom with crows.	乌鸦这个种群也在经历同样的发展。
So bird counts are indicating that we might be seeing up to exponential growth in their numbers.	所以鸟类的数量在我们看来 将会有一个爆炸型的增长，
So that's no great surprise.	这并没有什么奇怪的。
But what was really interesting to me was to find out that the birds were adapting in a pretty unusual way.	但令我感到吃惊的是这些鸟儿竟然学会了 通过一些奇特的方式在我们的社会里求得生存。
And I'll give you an example of that.	大家看看下面的例子：
So this is Betty. She's a New Caledonian crow.	它的名字是Betty，它是一只New Caledonia的乌鸦。
And these crows use sticks in the wild to get insects and whatnot out of pieces of wood.	在森林里，它们会用树枝从林木里 挑出虫子和其他食物。
Here, she's trying to get a piece of meat out of a tube.	此时它正尝试用铁线取出瓶子里的那块肉。
But the researchers had a problem.	但是研究者们遇到了一个问题。
They messed up and left just a stick of wire in there.	他们把试验搞砸了，因为只留下了一根线在那里。
And she hadn't had the opportunity to do this before.	而Betty以前可没尝试过这样的挑战。
You see, it wasn't working very well.	你可以看到，它进行得并不顺利。
So she adapted.	于是它想出了一个新法子。
Now this is completely unprompted. She had never seen this done before.	要知道，它没有看到过别的乌鸦这么做。
No one taught her to bend this into a hook, had shown her how it could happen.	之前也没有任何人或者别的乌鸦教它如何把线弯成钩子； 或者告诉过它可以通过这种方式捞肉。
But she did it all on her own.	这完全是它自己想出来的办法。
So keep in mind that she's never seen this done.	请一定记得它以前从没有学过的哦。
Right.	就这样。
Yeah. All right.	对，就这样。
That's the part where the researchers freak out.	这才是研究人员觉得不可思议的地方。
So, it turns out we've been finding more and more that crows are really, really intelligent.	我们发现越来越多的证据表明 乌鸦的确是聪明的，
Their brains are proportionate, in the same proportion as chimpanzee brains are.	它们的大脑占躯体的比例 和大猩猩相当。
There are all kinds of anecdotes for different kinds of intelligence they have.	大家也可能听过各种各样的关于乌鸦的趣闻吧。
For example, in Sweden, crows will wait for fishermen to drop lines through holes in the ice.	比如，在瑞典， 那里的乌鸦会趁渔人往冰隙里放钓钩的时候守在一边，
And when the fishermen move off, the crows fly down, reel up the lines, and eat the fish or the bait.	当渔人走了， 它们就飞过去拉起钓钩，吃掉钩上的鱼或钓饵。
It's pretty annoying for the fishermen.	这可是搞得那里的渔人很烦恼。
On an entirely different tack, at University of Washington, they, a few years ago, were doing an experiment where they captured some crows on campus.	而在华盛顿大学， 那里的研究员几年前 做了一个截然不同的实验。
Some students went out and netted some crows, brought them in, and were -- weighed them, and measured them and whatnot, and then let them back out again.	他们在校园里捉来一些乌鸦， 在实验室里加以标记、称量， 然后把它们放走。
And were entertained to discover that for the rest of the week, these crows, whenever these particular students walked around campus, these crows would caw at them, and run around and make their life kind of miserable.	而随后的那个星期， 他们惊喜地发现，那些被放走的乌鸦 在校园里一见到那些捉过它们的学生， 就会冲着他们鸣叫， 并在他们周围飞来飞去，给他们的生活增添一些小烦恼。
They were significantly less entertained when this went on for the next week.	但之后几个星期还是如此，他们就不再那么惊喜了。
And the next month. And after summer break.	甚至到了下个月，到了夏季学期结束，
Until they finally graduated and left campus, and -- glad to get away, I'm sure -- came back sometime later, and found the crows still remembered them.	到了他们毕业离校了—— 我相信他们是很高兴地离去的—— 可当他们偶尔回校来看看时，那些乌鸦还是记得他们。
So -- the moral being, don't piss off crows.	所以——大家看到了吧，千万别惹乌鸦。
So now, students at the University of Washington that are studying these crows do so with a giant wig and a big mask.	正是这样的缘故， 现在华盛顿大学做乌鸦研究的学生 都带上巨大的假发，还套上面具。
It's fairly interesting.	这真是令人哑然的一件事。
So we know that these crows are really smart, but the more I dug into this, the more I found that they actually have an even more significant adaptation.	以上说的无非是要证明乌鸦是非常聪明的， 但我研究得越是深入， 越是觉得它们的智慧要比我们想象的高出一个层次。
Crows have become highly skilled at making a living in these new urban environments.	在新的城市环境中， 乌鸦们的谋生技能正在变得越来越娴熟。
In this Japanese city, they have devised a way of eating a food that normally they can't manage: drop it among the traffic.	这是一座日本城市， 这里的乌鸦发明了一种吃果仁的办法—— 把坚果丢到车道上。
The problem now is collecting the bits, without getting run over.	然后飞走， 等待汽车开过。
Wait for the light to stop the traffic.	之后它们在马路边等待绿灯，
Then, collect your cracked nut in safety.	然后飞到马路中央安全地衔走那颗果仁
Joshua Klein: Yeah, yeah. Pretty interesting.	Joshua Klein: 看看，这是不是挺有趣的？
So what's significant about this isn't that crows are using cars to crack nuts.	不过，有趣的倒不是借助过往车辆压开果核的做法，
In fact, that's old hat for crows.	事实上，乌鸦老早就学会了这门手艺了。
This happened about 10 years ago in a place called Sendai City, at a driving school in the suburbs of Tokyo.	刚才大家看到的景象 发生在10年前东京市郊的 一家驾驶学校附近。
And since that time, all of the crows in the neighborhood are picking up this behavior.	从那时开始， 附近的乌鸦也学会了这样的吃坚果的方式。
And now, every crow within five kilometers is standing by a sidewalk, waiting to collect its lunch.	如今，方圆五公里内的乌鸦都在人行道旁守候着， 等待过往车辆为他们带来午餐。
So, they're learning from each other. And research bears this out.	乌鸦通过互相学习，都掌握了这种技巧。
Parents seem to be teaching their young.	乌鸦父母还教会自己的孩子这样的技巧呢。
They've learned from their peers. They've learned from their enemies.	它们向同伴学习，也向它们的敌人学习。
If I have a little extra time, I'll tell you about a case of crow infidelity that illustrates that nicely.	如果我还有更多演讲时间，我会告诉你们一个有关乌鸦背信的案例 来更好地证明我的观点。
The point being that they've developed cultural adaptation.	最关键的是它们学会了适应不同的生态文化。
And as we heard yesterday, that's the Pandora's box that's getting human beings in trouble, and we're starting to see it with them.	就如昨天我们听到的那样， 是潘多拉之盒将人类引入混乱， 现在是开始着手解决它的时候了。
They're able to very quickly and very flexibly adapt to new challenges and new resources in their environment, which is really useful if you live in a city.	他们能快速且融洽地适应 新的挑战及环境中的新资源， 对于城市生活来说，这可真有用。
So we know that there's lots of crows.	好了，现在我们都知道城市里有大量的乌鸦，
We found out they're really smart, and we found out that they can teach each other.	它们很聪明，还懂得相互间分享生存的秘诀。
And when all this became clear to me, I realized the only obvious thing to do is build a vending machine.	当我知道这一切以后， 我决定要专门为它们做一台自动售货机。
So that's what we did.	并且还做成功了。
This is a vending machine for crows.	这就是乌鸦专用自动售货机：
And it uses Skinnerian training to shape their behavior over four stages.	我们用斯金纳理论，分四阶段训练法来训练乌鸦。
It's pretty simple.	其实也很简单。
Basically, what happens is that we put this out in a field, or someplace where there's lots of crows, and we put coins and peanuts all around the base of the machine.	首先，我们把这样的机器放到田野 或者乌鸦经常出没的地方。 在机器的底部放上一大堆的硬币和花生。
And crows eventually come by, and eat the peanuts and get used to the machine being there.	乌鸦来了，吃掉机器上的花生， 并且也习惯了机器的存在。
And eventually, they eat up all the peanuts.	吃光了地面的花生以后，
And then they see that there are peanuts here on the feeder tray, and they hop up and help themselves.	它们发现在售货机的出货口那里也有很多花生， 于是就跳到上面，也同样尽享美味。
And then they leave, and the machine spits up more coins and peanuts, and life is really dandy, if you're a crow.	每一天，那机器上都会放满了硬币和花生。 嘿，要是当那样的一只乌鸦也不错哟，
Then you can come back anytime and get yourself a peanut.	每天都不愁吃的。
So, when they get really used to that, we move on to the crows coming back.	当它们都习惯这样的生活或，我们继续下一步
Now, they're used to the sound of the machine, and they keep coming back, and digging out these peanuts from amongst the pile of coins that's there.	我们等到乌鸦都习惯于机器的声音，就把花生盖在硬币底下， 它们飞过来，掀开硬币，
And when they get really happy about this, we go ahead and stymie them.	就能吃得到花生，它们也挺开心的。 这时，我们决定给它们制造一些困难。
And we move to the third stage, where we only give them a coin.	我们开始了第三阶段的训练。只把一枚硬币留在机器上，
Now, like most of us who have gotten used to a good thing, this really pisses them off.	此时乌鸦飞过来，看到没有食物， 自然觉得很泄气——我们人也一样嘛。
So, they do what they do in nature when they're looking for something -- they sweep things out of the way with their beak.	所以它们出于寻找食物的本能—— 用它的喙在机器上扫来扫去，
And they do that here, and that knocks the coins down the slot, and when that happens, they get a peanut.	不经意的把硬币碰到硬币口里去了， 于是它获得了一颗花生。
And so this goes on for some time.	于是它们也学会了，
The crows learn that all they have to do is show up, wait for the coin to come out, put the coin in the slot, and then they get their peanut.	每次都来这里， 只要把机器上的硬币丢到硬币口，就能吃得到花生，
And when they're really good and comfortable with that, we move to the final stage, in which they show up and nothing happens.	当他们对此过程非常熟练及满足以后， 我们进入训练的最后一个阶段，它们来到机器旁边，却发现什么也没有。
And this is where we see the difference between crows and other animals.	注意，就是这个关键的地方可以看出乌鸦是多么聪明。
Squirrels, for example, would show up, look for the peanut, go away.	要是一只松鼠，它来到机器旁，寻找花生，找不到，就走了
Come back, look for the peanut, go away.	隔天再来，又是没有，又跑回去。
They do this maybe half a dozen times before they get bored, and then they go off and play in traffic.	如此反复五六次， 它们也就觉得没意思了。
Crows, on the other hand, show up, and they try and figure it out.	而乌鸦则不一样，它们要寻找出一个究竟。
They know that this machine's been messing with them, through three different stages of behavior.	通过前面三个阶段， 并且这样的玩笑越开越大。
They figure it's gotta have more to it.	它们觉得肯定还有更多方式获得花生。
So, they poke at it and peck at it and whatnot.	它们又是用头撞，又是用嘴咬。
And eventually some crow gets a bright idea that, "Hey, there's lots of coins lying around from the first stage, lying around on the ground," hops down, picks it up, drops it in the slot.	偶尔间有一些乌鸦想到了一个绝妙的主意： "嘿，大家还记得地面上放的那一大堆硬币么。 或许有用呢？"——于是它们飞过来，衔起硬币，扔进投币孔。
And then, we're off to the races.	它们发现了怎么吃得上花生了！
That crow enjoys a temporary monopoly on peanuts, until his friends figure out how to do it, and then there we go.	这样的技巧先是为第一批到来的乌鸦所垄断， 可慢慢的别的乌鸦也学会了……故事到此为止。
So, what's significant about this to me isn't that we can train crows to pick up peanuts.	从这个故事我们得出结论： 我们可以训练乌鸦，让它们通过售货机吃上花生。
Mind you, there's 216 million dollars' worth of change lost every year, but I'm not sure I can depend on that ROI from crows.	你知不知道，每一年都有价值2.16亿的硬币丢在大街上。 嘿，当然，我不是想靠乌鸦来赚钱。
Instead, I think we should look a little bit larger.	我们的眼光可以放远一点：
I think that crows can be trained to do other things.	我觉得我们可以训练乌鸦来做其他事。
For example, why not train them to pick up garbage after stadium events?	比如，为何不可以通过训练，让乌鸦给体育馆捡垃圾？
Or find expensive components from discarded electronics?	或者让它们帮助我们从大堆的废弃电子元件里头挑出有用的部件？
Or maybe do search and rescue?	又或者让它们参与搜救工作？
The main thing, the main point of all this for me is that we can find mutually beneficial systems for these species.	我这个演讲的主要的一个观点是 我们可以寻找到一种与此类动物共存的途径，
We can find ways to interact with these other species that doesn't involve exterminating them, but involves finding an equilibrium with them that's a useful balance.	我们能找到与其他族群共处的方式 而不仅仅是灭绝它们， 我们可以和它们实现共赢。
Thanks very much.	非常感谢大家。
What we're really here to talk about is the "how."	我们在此真正讨论的是怎么做
Okay, so how exactly do we create this world-shattering, if you will, innovation?	好的，那么我们究竟是怎么创造这 世界震惊的创新，如果你愿意
Now, I want to tell you a quick story.	现在，我想跟大家分享一个小故事
We'll go back a little more than a year.	让我们把时间倒回一年多以前
In fact, the date -- I'm curious to know if any of you know what happened on this momentous date?	事实上，关于那个日子，我很好奇地想知道 你们当中是否有人知道在哪个重大的日子发生了什么
It was February 3rd, 2008.	那是2008年2月3号
Anyone remember what happened, February 3rd, 2008?	有人知道那天发生了什么， 2008年2月3号
Super Bowl. I heard it over here. It was the date of the Super Bowl.	超级碗。我从那听见了。那正是超级碗的日子
And the reason that this date was so momentous is that what my colleagues, John King and Halee Fischer-Wright, and I noticed as we began to debrief various Super Bowl parties, is that it seemed to us that across the United States, if you will, tribal councils had convened.	正是这个原因这个日子才如此重大 我的同事，约翰.金 和 海利，华特和我注意到 当我们开始调查一些超级碗团体时 我们发现似乎 贯穿全美 如果你愿意，部落委员会已经召集了
And they had discussed things of great national importance.	并且他们讨论了一些有国家重要性的事
Like, "Do we like the Budweiser commercial?"	比如，我们喜欢百威的广告吗
and, "Do we like the nachos?" and, "Who is going to win?"	我们喜欢墨西哥玉米片吗以及哪一方会赢
But they also talked about which candidate they were going to support.	但是他们也讨论他们将会支持哪一个候选人
And if you go back in time to February 3rd, it looked like Hilary Clinton was going to get the Democratic nomination.	如果把时间倒回2月3号 当时希拉里看似将要得到民主党的提名
And there were even some polls that were saying she was going to go all the way.	甚至一些民调表示她将会一路走下去
But when we talked to people, it appeared that a funnel effect had happened in these tribes all across the United States.	但是当我们与民众交谈时 我们发现貌似一个漏斗效应已经发生 在这些遍布在美国大地上的部落之中
Now what is a tribe? A tribe is a group of about 20 -- so kind of more than a team -- 20 to about 150 people.	那么部落是什么呢？ 部落是一个小组 包括20人，看上去更像一个团队 20到大约150人
And it's within these tribes that all of our work gets done.	我们的研究成果正是基于这些部落
But not just work. It's within these tribes that societies get built, that important things happen.	不仅仅是研究工作。由于这些部落 社会得以建立 重要的事情得以发生
And so as we surveyed the, if you will, representatives from various tribal councils that met, also known as Super Bowl parties, we sent the following email off to 40 newspaper editors the following day.	所以如果你愿意，当我们调查一些代表 他们来自各种部落委员会，他们相见 他们也知道超级碗团体 第二天我们发送了如下的电子邮件给40位报纸编辑
February 4th, we posted it on our website. This was before Super Tuesday.	2月4号，我们将结果发布在我们的网站上，这一切都早于超级星期二
We said, "The tribes that we're in are saying it's going to be Obama."	我们说：我们所在的部落表明 胜出者将会是奥巴马
Now, the reason we knew that was because we spent the previous 10 years studying tribes, studying these naturally occurring groups.	我们知道这个结果的原因是 我们花费了过去的十年 研究部落，研究自然地形成的团体
All of you are members of tribes.	你们所有人都是部落的一员
In walking around at the break, many of you had met members of your tribe. And you were talking to them.	当你在休息散步时 你们中的许多人会遇见你们部落的成员，然后你们相互交谈
And many of you were doing what great, if you will, tribal leaders do, which is to find someone who is a member of a tribe, and to find someone else who is another member of a different tribe, and make introductions.	并且，如果你们愿意，你们当中许多人做着一些伟大的部落领导者所作的事 那就是找到 你部落的一个人 然后找到一个属于另一个的部落的人 最后相互介绍他们
That is in fact what great tribal leaders do.	事实上这就是伟大的部落领导人所做的
So here is the bottom line.	这就是一条底限
If you focus in on a group like this -- this happens to be a USC game -- and you zoom in with one of those super satellite cameras and do magnification factors so you could see individual people, you would in fact see not a single crowd, just like there is not a single crowd here, but you would see these tribes that are then coming together.	如果你关注一个像这样的部落 它刚好是终极格斗冠军赛 你拉近那些超级人造卫星照相机的镜头 放大图像直到你可以看到单一的个人 事实上你看到的将不再是一个单一的群组 就像这儿也没有一个单一群组一样 但你会看到这些部落正逐步聚合
And from a distance it appears that it's a single group.	所以从一定距离看来它就像一个单一的团体
And so people form tribes.	人们所以形成部落
They always have. They always will.	他们总是这么做，他们总是愿意做
Just as fish swim and birds fly, people form tribes. It's just what we do.	好比鱼儿水中游，鸟儿天上飞 人类组成部落。天性使然
But here's the rub.	但是这其中也有摩擦
Not all tribes are the same, and what makes the difference is the culture.	并不是所有的部落都是一模一样的 文化让部落产生不同
Now here is the net out of this.	这就是从中产生的网络
You're all a member of tribes.	你们都是部落中的一员
If you can find a way to take the tribes that you're in and nudge them forward, along these tribal stages to what we call Stage Five, which is the top of the mountain.	如果你可以找到一途径带领你所在部落 并推动他们向前 沿着部落的那些发展阶段 直到我们所谓的顶峰——阶段五
But we're going to start with what we call Stage One.	但是我们必须从我们称之阶段一的地方开始
Now, this is the lowest of the stages.	这是最底层的阶段
You don't want this. Okay?	你们不想要这个。对吧？
This is a bit of a difficult image to put up on the screen.	把这张图放上屏幕可能有点困难
But it's one that I think we need to learn from.	但是我认为我们应该从中有所学习
Stage One produces people who do horrible things.	阶段一产生 做出可怕事情的人
This is the kid who shot up Virginia Tech.	这是制造弗吉尼亚校园枪击案的那个孩子
Stage One is a group where people systematically sever relationships from functional tribes, and then pool together with people who think like they do.	阶段一是一些人 他们系统地从功能性的部落切断联系 然后汇集到一起 和那些认同他们所作所为的人一起
Stage One is literally the culture of gangs and it is the culture of prisons.	阶段一仅仅是字面意义上的一群人 并且还是犯罪的温床
Now, again, we don't often deal with Stage One.	重申一遍，我们并不常常同阶段一打交道
And I want to make the point that as members of society, we need to.	但我同时需要指出的是 作为社会的成员，我们有这个必要
It's not enough to simply write people off.	简简单单地将他们忽略是远远不够的
But let's move on to Stage Two.	现在让我们转移到阶段二
Now, Stage One, you'll notice, says, in effect, "Life Sucks."	实际上你会注意到阶段一代表生活糟透了
So, this other book that Steve mentioned, that just came out, called "The Three Laws of Performance," my colleague, Steve Zaffron and I, argue that as people see the world, so they behave.	这是史蒂夫提到的另一本书 这本书刚刚出版，书名是《执行的三条定律》 我的同事，史蒂夫和我 探讨认为人们怎么看待世界，他们就怎么做
Well, if people see the world in such a way that life sucks, then their behavior will follow automatically from that.	如果人们以生活糟透了的方式来看待世界的话 然后他们的行为就会自动地遵循这个
It will be despairing hostility.	那将会是绝望中的反抗
They'll do whatever it takes to survive, even if that means undermining other people.	为了生存他们会做任何事 哪怕这意味着要伤害其他人
Now, my birthday is coming up shortly, and my driver's license expires.	我的生日快到了 并且我的驾照已经期满了
And the reason that that's relevant is that very soon I will be walking into what we call a Stage Two tribe, which looks like this.	这一切相关的原因是很快 我将会步入一个我们称之为 阶段二的部落 它看起来像这样
Now, am I saying that in every Department of Motor Vehicles across the land, you find a Stage Two culture?	现场笑声 我有说过在每一个车辆管理局 在全国各地，你会发现一个阶段二的文化
No. But in the one near me, where I have to go in just a few days, what I will say when I'm standing in line is, "How can people be so dumb, and yet live?"	不，，但是在我附近的那一个 最近几天我不得不去的那一个 当我排队时我会说 "怎么会有人这么笨，但还活得好好的呢？"
Now, am I saying that there are dumb people working here?	我有说是一帮蠢人在这工作吗？
Actually, no, I'm not.	实际上，我没有
But I'm saying the culture makes people dumb.	但是，我要说是文化让人变笨了
So in a Stage Two culture -- and we find these in all sorts of different places -- you find them, in fact, in the best organizations in the world.	所以在阶段二 我们可以从所有不同的地方发现这一点 实际，你可以从世界上最优秀的组织中发现这些
You find them in all places in society.	你可以从社会中的所有地方发现这些
I've come across them at the organizations that everybody raves about as being best in class.	我已经在一些组织中遇到这种情况 在组织中，所有人都叫嚷着要成为最棒的
But here is the point. If you believe and you say to people in your tribe, in effect, "My life sucks.	但问题是，如果你相信这一点并向 你所在部落其他人说了，那事实上 我的生活糟透了
I mean, if I got to go to TEDx USC my life wouldn't suck. But I don't. So it does."	我的意思是如果我去TED南加州大学演讲， 我的生活不会变糟。但我没去，所以它变糟了。
If that's how you talked, imagine what kind of work would get done.	如果那是你说话的方式，想象一下，你能够做成什么？
What kind of innovation would get done?	什么样的革新可以完成？
The amount of world-changing behavior that would happen?	一些改变世界的行为可能发生吗？
In fact it would be basically nil.	实际上这个数字将会是零
Now when we go on to Stage Three: this is the one that hits closest to home for many of us.	那么，我们转移到阶段三，这个阶段 与我们每个人的家庭联系最紧密
Because it is in Stage Three that many of us move.	因为在这个阶段，我们许多人前进
And we park. And we stay.	我们暂停，我们静止
Stage Three says, "I'm great. And you're not."	阶段三说："我很伟大，但你没有"
I'm great and you're not.	我很伟大，但你没有
Now imagine having a whole room of people saying, in effect, "I'm great and you're not."	想象一下，一整个屋子的人 都在说，"我很伟大，但你没有"
Or, "I'm going to find some way to compete with you and come out on top as a result of that."	或者"我将找到一些与你竞争的方法 并且得到最好的结果"
A whole group of people communicating that way, talking that way.	一整个团体的人都这样交流，这样谈话
I know this sounds like a joke. Three doctors walk into a bar.	我知道听起来想一个笑话。三个医生进了一家酒吧
But, in this case, three doctors walk into an elevator.	但是，在这个例子中，三个医生进了一个电梯
I happened to be in the elevator collecting data for this book.	我刚好在那个电梯里，为本书收集数据
And one doctor said to the others, "Did you see my article in the New England Journal of Medicine?"	一个医生说道："你们看到了我的论文 发表在了新英格兰医学期刊上了"
And the other said, "No. That's great. Congratulations!"	其他人说："不。那很棒。恭喜你"
The next one got kind of a wry smile on his face and said, "Well while you were, you know, doing your research," -- notice the condescending tone -- "While you were off doing your research, I was off doing more surgeries than anyone else in the department of surgery at this institution."	下一个人面带扭曲的微笑说道， "你知道的，当你做你的研究时 注意那种居高临下的语气 当你做研究时，我做了更多的手术 比其他任何在这个部门的人还要多
And the third one got the same wry smile and said, "Well, while you were off doing your research, and you were off doing your monkey meatball surgery, that eventually we'll train monkeys to do, or cells or robots, or maybe not even need to do it at all, I was off running the future of the residency program, which is really the future of medicine."	第三个人面带同样扭曲的微笑说道 当你做你的研究时 而你做你的猴子肉丸手术时 最终我们将训练猴子做那个手术 或者是细胞，或者是机器人，或者其他可能的需要 我一直在运作居民项目的未来 那才真正是医学的未来
And they all kind of laughed and they patted him on the back.	另外两个人略带笑意并轻拍了他的后背
And the elevator door opened, and they all walked out.	然后电梯门开了，他们都走了出去
That is a meeting of a Stage Three tribe.	这就是一个阶段三下的会谈
Now, we find these in places where really smart, successful people show up.	我们发现这些 会在一些真正聪明和成功的人中发生
Like, oh, I don't know, TEDx USC.	比如，我不是很明确，TED南加州大学演讲
Here is the greatest challenge we face in innovation.	这里我们将遇到革新中的最大的挑战
It is moving from Stage Three to Stage Four.	这就是从阶段三 过渡到阶段四
Let's take a look at a quick video snippet.	让我们来看一小段视频
This is from a company called Zappos, located outside Las Vegas.	这是一家叫Zappos，坐落在拉斯维加斯城外的公司
And my question on the other side is just going to be, "What do you think they value?"	我的问题将会是 "你认为他们珍惜的价值是什么"
It was not Christmas time. There was a Christmas tree.	这不是在圣诞期间，那有一棵圣诞树
This is their lobby.	这是他们的工作间
Employees volunteer time in the advice booth.	雇员志愿在他们的工作台上花费时间
Notice it looks like something out of a Peanuts cartoon.	注意，这像是从花生卡通中出来的某物
Okay, we're going through the hallway here at Zappos.	好的，现在我们将穿过Zappos的门厅
This is a call center. Notice how it's decorated.	这是一个呼叫中心，注意一下它是怎么装修的
Notice people are applauding for us.	看，人们在向我们鼓掌
They don't know who we are and they don't care. And if they did they probably wouldn't applaud.	他们不知道我们是谁，他们也不在乎。如果他们是的话 他们很可能就不鼓掌了
But you'll notice the level of excitement.	但是你将注意到兴奋的程度
Notice, again, how they decorate their office.	再看一次，他们怎么装修他们的办公室的
Now, what's important to people at Zappos, these may not be the things that are important to you.	那么，对Zappos的员工来说什么是重要的 那也许并不是对你来说很重要的事
But they value things like fun. And they value creativity.	他们珍重像乐趣之类的事。他们珍重创造力。
One of their stated values is, "Be a little bit weird."	他们宣告的一条价值观就是：变得一点点古怪。
And you'll notice they are a little bit weird.	你会发现他们确实有点古怪
So when individuals come together and find something that unites them that's greater than their individual competence, then something very important happens.	所以当个体聚集 并且发现一些团结起他们的事 这比他们间的竞争更伟大 然后一些很重要的事发生了
The group gels. And it changes from a group of highly motivated but fairly individually-centric people into something larger, into a tribe that becomes aware of its own existence.	这个团体凝聚成一体，而且它从 一个团体高动力 但是平均个人自我为中心 变得更大 变成一个开始关注自我存在的部落
Stage Four tribes can do remarkable things.	阶段四的部落能过做出非凡的事情
But you'll notice we're not at the top of the mountain yet.	但你也注意到了我们还没有到达顶峰
There is, in fact, another stage.	事实上，那还有一个阶段
Now, some of you may not recognize the scene that's up here.	现在，你们当中一些人可能还没有认识到上面的那一阶段
And if you take a look at the headline of Stage Five, which is "Life is Great," this may seem a little incongruous.	如果你看一下阶段五的标题，生活很伟大 这看上去有一点不协调
This is a scene or snippet from the Truth and Reconciliation process in South Africa for which Desmond Tutu won the Nobel Prize.	这是一个场景或片断 摘自于 在南非的真相与和解的进程 因为这个德斯蒙德 图图获得了诺贝尔奖
Now think about that. South Africa, terrible atrocities had happened in the society.	现在想一想，在南非 社会中，过去曾经发生过可怕的暴行
And people came together focused only on those two values: truth and reconciliation.	人们走到一起 仅仅关注两条价值：真相与和解
There was no road map. No one had ever done anything like this before.	那里没有道路的地图。以前没有人曾经做过 任何像这样的事
And in this atmosphere, where the only guidance was people's values and their noble cause, what this group accomplished was historic.	在这种氛围中，唯一的指导 就是人们的价值，他们的崇高事业 这个团体完成的是历史性的
And people, at the time, feared that South Africa would end up going the way that Rwanda has gone, descending into one skirmish after another in a civil war that seems to have no end.	在那时，人们担心南非 会在卢旺达曾经走过的那条路上走向灭亡 不断分解的小冲突 在内战中似乎没有尽头
In fact, South Africa has not gone down that road.	事实上，南非并没有走这条道路
Largely because people like Desmond Tutu set up a Stage Five process to involve the thousands and perhaps millions of tribes in the country, to bring everyone together.	很大程度上是由于像德斯蒙德 图图这样的人 建立起一个阶段五程序 涉及到上千个也可能是上百万个 这个国家中的部落，来让每个人到一起
So, people hear this and they conclude the following, as did we in doing the study.	所以人们听到这些并且他们得到以下结论 就像我们在这个研究中所作的
Okay, got it. I don't want to talk Stage One.	好的，明白。我不想再谈阶段一
That's like, you know, "Life sucks." Who wants to talk that way?	那就像，生活糟透了。谁愿意那么说
I don't want to talk like they do at the particular DMV that's close to where Dave lives.	我和他们一样不愿谈 特别是在机动车管理局，那里离戴夫住的地方很近
I really don't want to just say "I'm great," because that kind of sounds narcissistic, and then I won't have any friends.	我确实不愿意仅仅就说我很伟大 因为这听上去有点自恋，然后我将不会交到任何朋友
Saying, "We're great" -- that sounds pretty good.	说，我们很伟大，这听上去好多了
But I should really talk Stage Five, right? "Life is great."	但我将好好谈论阶段五，生活很伟大
Well, in fact, there are three somewhat counter-intuitive findings that come out of all this.	事实上，这里有三条有悖直觉的发现 从所有这些研究结果中产生
The first one, if you look at the Declaration of Independence and actually read it, the phrase that sticks in many of our minds is things about inalienable rights.	第一条，如果你打开独立宣言 并真正读一读 在我们脑中不可磨灭的语句是 关于不可剥夺的权利的一些事
I mean, that's Stage Five, right? Life is great, oriented only by our values, no other guidance.	我意思，那是阶段五，对吗？生活很伟大 仅仅由我们的价值观引导 而没有其他的导向
In fact, most of the document is written at Stage Two.	事实上，宣言大部分还停留在阶段二
"My life sucks because I live under a tyrant, also known as King George.	我的生活糟透了，因为我生活在专制之下 也被称为国王乔治。
We're great! Who is not great? England!"	我们很伟大！谁又不伟大了？英格兰
Sorry.	对不起。
Well, what about other great leaders? What about Gandhi?	那么，如果是其他伟大的领袖呢？甘地怎么样呢？
What about Martin Luther King?	马丁 路德 金 又怎么样呢？
I mean, surely these were just people who preached, "Life is great," right?	我意思是，显然他们都是宣扬生活很伟大的人，是吧？
Just one little bit of happiness and joy after another.	生命中总是充满了不断的幸福和快乐
In fact, Martin Luther King's most famous line was at Stage Three.	事实上，马丁 路德 金的大多数宣言是处在阶段三的
He didn't say "We have a dream." He said, "I have a dream."	他没有说，我们有一个梦想。他说，我有一个梦想
Why did he do that? Because most people are not at Stage Five.	他为什么那么说？因为大多数人 并没有到达阶段五
Two percent are at Stage One.	2%的人处在阶段一
About 25 percent are at Stage Two, saying, in effect, "My life sucks."	大约25%的人在阶段二 说着，"我的生活糟透了"
48 percent of working tribes say, these are employed tribes, say, "I'm great and you're not."	48%的工薪阶层，那些受雇的部落 说道，"我很伟大，但你没有"
And we have to duke it out every day, so we resort to politics.	我们不得不每天，所以我们诉诸于政治
Only about 22 percent of tribes are at Stage Four, oriented by our values, saying "We're great.	只有22%的部落 是处在阶段四 在我们价值观的引导下，说,"我们很伟大
And our values are beginning to unite us."	我们的价值观开始将我们联合到一起
Only two percent, only two percent of tribes get to Stage Five.	仅仅只有2%，仅仅只有2%的部落 到达了阶段五
And those are the ones that change the world.	那些才是改变世界的
So the first little finding from this is that leaders need to be able to talk all the levels so that you can touch every person in society.	所以从中我们有一个小发现 那就是领导者要能够与所有层次的人交流 那样他才可以解触到社会中的所有人
But you don't leave them where you found them. Okay?	但别离开他们所在的阶段，好吗？
Tribes can only hear one level above and below where they are.	部落仅仅可以听到与之相邻的上下两个阶段的
So we have to have the ability to talk all the levels, to go to where they are.	所以我们得拥有与所有层次交谈的能力 有到达他们所在的能力
And then leaders nudge people within their tribes to the next level.	然后领导者推动部落中的 人们到达下一个阶段
I'd like to show you some examples of this.	我将给你们展示几个例子
One of the people we interviewed was Frank Jordan, former Mayor of San Francisco. Before that he was Chief of Police in San Francisco.	弗兰克 乔丹是我们的一个访谈对象 他是旧金山前任市长，在此之前 他是旧金山警察局局长
And he grew up essentially in Stage One.	基本上，他在阶段一中长大
And you know what changed his life? It was walking into one of these, a Boys and Girls Club.	你们认为是什么改变了他的生活？那是步入 一个男孩女孩俱乐部
Now here is what happened to this person who eventually became Mayor of San Francisco.	这就是发生在他身上的事 最终让他成为了旧金山市长
He went from being alive and passionate at Stage One -- remember, "Life sucks, despairing hostility, I will do whatever it takes to survive" -- to walking into a Boys and Girls Club, folding his arms, sitting down in a chair, and saying, "Wow. My life really sucks.	他从有活力有激情地活在 阶段一，记着，"生活糟透了 令人绝望的敌意，我将会为了生存做任何事" 发展到，进入一个男孩女孩俱乐部 坐在一张椅子上，袖手旁观 说道，"哇哦，我的生活确实糟透了，
I don't know anybody.	我不认识任何人
I mean, if I was into boxing, like they were, then my life wouldn't suck. But I don't. So it does.	我意思是，如果我去拳击，像他们一样 我的生活就不会糟糕。但我没有，所以它很糟
So I'm going to sit here in my chair and not do anything."	所以我要坐在这并且什么也不做
In fact, that's progress.	事实上，这就是进步
We move people from Stage One to Stage Two by getting them in a new tribe and then, over time, getting them connected.	我们推动人们从阶段一进入阶段二 就是将他们引入一个新的部落 并在一段时间内保持联系
So, what about moving from Stage Three to Stage Four?	那么，从阶段三到阶段四 又是怎么样呢？
I want to argue that we're doing that right here.	我想申明，这就是我们此刻在做的
TED represents a set of values, and as we unite around these values, something really interesting begins to emerge.	TED代表了一系列的价值观 当我们聚集在这些价值下时 一些真正有趣的事开始显现
If you want this experience to live on as something historic, then at the reception tonight I'd like to encourage you to do something beyond what people normally do and call networking.	如果你想拥有这样的经历，活着 能有某种历史意义 所以在今晚的聚会，我要鼓励你们做一些事 有悖人们通常所做的事 呼叫网络
Which is not just to meet new people and extend your reach, extend your influence, but instead, find someone you don't know, and find someone else you don't know, and introduce them.	这不再仅是简单的见一些新的面孔 扩大你的交际圈和影响力 取而代之的是发现一些你不认识的人 再发现一些你不认识的人 然后将他们相互引见
That's called a triadic relationship.	这就是所谓的三元关系
See, people who build world-changing tribes do that.	建立改变世界的部落的人做的就是这些
They extend the reach of their tribes by connecting them, not just to myself, so that my following is greater, but I connect people who don't know each other to something greater than themselves.	他们向外延伸他们的部落 联系他们，而不仅是对我自己 因此我的跟随者就更多 我将互不认识的人联系到 一些比他们自己更伟大的事上来
And ultimately that adds to their values.	并最终这些添加到他们的价值观中去了
But we're not done yet. Because then how do we go from Stage Four, which is great, to Stage Five?	但我们还没有完成，因为我们该怎么从阶段四 到更伟大的阶段，阶段五呢？
The story that I like to end with is this. It comes out of a place called the Gallup Organization.	下面我将以一个故事结尾。它发生在 一个叫盖洛普组织的中
You know they do polls, right?	你知道的，他们是做调查的，对吗？
So it's Stage Four. We're great. Who is not great?	它属于阶段四的。我们很伟大，谁不伟大呢？
Pretty much everybody else who does polls.	也有其他许多人在做调查
If Gallup releases a poll on the same day that NBC releases a poll, people will pay attention to the Gallup poll. Okay, we understand that.	如果盖洛普和NBC同一天发布了一个调查 人们会关注盖洛普的调查。好的，我们都明白的
So, they were bored.	尽管他们厌烦了
They wanted to change the world. So here is the question someone asked.	他们想要改变世界。这是某个人剔除的问题
"How could we, instead of just polling what Asia thinks or what the United States thinks, or who thinks what about Obama versus McCain or something like that, what does the entire world think?"	我们怎么能够 取代仅仅调查亚洲的想法 美国的想法 人们对奥巴马和 麦克 凯恩怎么看，或是类似的事 变成整个世界的看法
And they found a way to do the first-ever world poll.	他们发现一个途径去开展第一个全球调查
They had people involved who were Nobel laureates in economics, who reported being bored.	他们的调查涉及，诺贝尔 经济学奖得主，对调查厌烦的普通人
And suddenly they pulled out sheets of paper and were trying to figure out, "How do we survey the population of Sub-Saharan Africa?	突然他们抽出一叠问卷 试图弄明白，"我们怎么调查 撒哈拉以南非洲的人口"
How do we survey populations that don't have access to technology, and speak languages we don't speak, and we don't know anyone who speaks those languages. Because in order to achieve on this great mission, we have to be able to do it.	我们怎么调查技术无法到达的人口 与我们说不通语言的人口 并且我们不认识任何一个说这种语言的人。 但为了 完成这个伟大的使命 我们必须能够掌握它
Incidentally, they did pull it off.	顺便说一句，他们没有半途而废。
And they released the first-ever world poll.	他们发起了第一个全球调查
So I'd like to leave you with these thoughts.	我很乐意给你们留下这些想法
First of all: we all form tribes, all of us.	第一，我们所有人组成部落，所有人
You're in tribes here. Hopefully you're extending the reach of the tribes that you have.	在这里，你属于一个部落。希望你正在扩大你的所接触 已有的部落
But the question on the table is this: What kind of an impact are the tribes that you are in making?	问题是， 你所在的部落在作出 什么影响呢？
You're hearing one presentation after another, often representing a group of people, a tribe, about how they have changed the world.	你听到一个接一个的问题 通常代表着一群人，一个部落 关于他们怎么改变世界
If you do what we've talked about, you listen for how people actually communicate in the tribes that you're in.	如果你做我们刚才谈论的，你听取了 人们怎么在你所在的部落中交流
And you don't leave them where they are. You nudge them forward.	你不脱离他们。你推动他们向前
You remember to talk all five culture stages.	你记得与所有五个文化阶段对话
Because we've got people in all five, around us.	因为我们的周围充斥着所有这五个阶段的人
And the question that I'd like to leave you with is this: Will your tribes change the world?	我将留给你们的问题是 你的部落将会改变世界吗？
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
The greatest irony in global health is that the poorest countries carry the largest disease burden.	全球医疗事业最大的讽刺在于 那些最为贫穷的国家 同时也是最为病魔缠身的国家
If we resize the countries of the globe in proportion to the subject of interest, we see that Sub-Saharan Africa is the worst hit region by HIV/AIDS.	如果我们对全球各国 按各种疾病的严重程度进行排序的话 我们会发现撒哈拉沙漠以南的非洲 是艾滋病最为肆虐的地区
This is the most devastating epidemic of our time.	而这是世界上目前最致命的传染性疾病
We also see that this region has the least capability in terms of dealing with the disease.	我们还会发现这一地区 在应对艾滋病方面恰恰是最无能为力的
There are very few doctors and, quite frankly, these countries do not have the resources that are needed to cope with such epidemics.	那里缺乏医生 而且老实说，那些国家根本不具备 应对艾滋病的 必要物资
So what the Western countries, developed countries, have generously done is they have proposed to provide free drugs to all people in Third World countries who actually can't afford these medications.	西方发达国家 为他们慷慨解囊 免费提供药品 给所有第三世界国家 给买不起这些药的人们
And this has already saved millions of lives, and it has prevented entire economies from capsizing in Sub-Saharan Africa.	这种义举已经挽救了数以百万计的生命 也把撒哈拉南部非洲各国的经济 从沉没边缘挽救了回来
But there is a fundamental problem that is killing the efforts in fighting this disease, because if you keep throwing drugs out at people who don't have diagnostic services, you end up creating a problem of drug resistance.	但还有一个最基本的问题 就是抗艾滋斗争 为此拖了后腿 那就是，假如你不停提供药品 给那些 得不到有效诊断的人们 就会导致病毒抗药性增强的问题
This is already beginning to happen in Sub-Saharan Africa.	这个现象已开始在萨哈拉以南非洲地区显现
The problem is that, what begins as a tragedy in the Third World could easily become a global problem.	问题在于 始于第三世界国家的悲剧 很容易就会演变为全球性的问题
And the last thing we want to see is drug-resistant strains of HIV popping up all over the world, because it will make treatment more expensive and it could also restore the pre-ARV carnage of HIV/AIDS.	我们最不愿意见到的事情 就是产生了抗药性的艾滋病毒 在全球各地疯狂传播 这样一来要治好它就会逾发昂贵 从而导致人类抗艾斗争重回 抗逆转录病毒药物出现前的黑暗时代
I experienced this firsthand as a high school student in Uganda.	我在乌干达上中学的时候 就曾亲眼目睹过这样一个时代
This was in the 90s during the peak of the HIV epidemic, before there were any ARVs in Sub-Saharan Africa.	那是上世纪90年代 艾滋病流行最高峰时期的事儿了 当时萨南非洲还没有任何的抗逆转录病毒药
And during that time, I actually lost more relatives, as well as the teachers who taught me, to HIV/AIDS.	那几年中，我大多数的亲人 还有给我上课的老师 都死于艾滋病
So this became one of the driving passions of my life, to help find real solutions that could address these kinds of problems.	所以，我人生中最大的目标之一 就是寻找一个有效的办法 来解决这个问题
We all know about the miracle of miniaturization.	我们都见识过微型化技术的神奇
Back in the day, computers used to fill this entire room, and people actually used to work inside the computers.	从前的电脑能填满这一整个屋子 人们使用它的时候还得钻到它里面去
But what electronic miniaturization has done is that it has allowed people to shrink technology into a cell phone.	但是随着电子技术微型化的发展 人们已经可以把最新的科技成果 缩到一个手机那么小的体积
And I'm sure everyone here enjoys cell phones that can actually be used in the remote areas of the world, in the Third World countries.	我想在座的各位对手机都很有爱吧 这东西在偏远的第三世界国家 能派上大用场
The good news is that the same technology that allowed miniaturization of electronics is now allowing us to miniaturize biological laboratories.	好消息是，我们在微缩电子产品体积的过程中 所使用的技术 也可以用来微缩 生物实验室
So, right now, we can actually miniaturize biological and chemistry laboratories onto microfluidic chips.	所以，如今，我们可以把 生化实验室 给微缩到微流体芯片上
I was very lucky to come to the US right after high school, and was able to work on this technology and develop some devices.	我很幸运 高中毕业之后就直接来到美国 并且还能参与这项技术的研究 为它研发相关设备
This is a microfluidic chip that I developed.	这就是我发明的一种微流体芯片
A close look at how the technology works: These are channels that are about the size of a human hair -- so you have integrated valves, pumps, mixers and injectors -- so you can fit entire diagnostic experiments onto a microfluidic system.	我来详细解释一下这种技术的工作原理： 这些管道跟人的头发差不多粗细 你可以在上面装上阀门、泵、注射器和混合器 把整套诊断化验设备 都装到一个微流体芯片上去
So what I plan to do with this technology is to actually take the current state of the technology and build an HIV kit in a microfluidic system.	我想做的是 利用目前的 这种技术 来把一个艾滋病化验室 集成到一个芯片上去
So, with one microfluidic chip, which is the size of an iPhone, you can actually diagnose 100 patients at the same time.	那样，只要有一个 跟iPhone差不多大小的芯片 就可以同时诊断 上百位病人
For each patient, we will be able to do up to 100 different viral loads per patient.	为每位病人做多达百组的 病毒负荷量检测
And this is only done in four hours, 50 times faster than the current state of the art, at a cost that will be five to 500 times cheaper than the current options.	这一切仅需四小时 比现有方法快五十倍 价格却只有它的 五百分之一
So this will allow us to create personalized medicines in the Third World at a cost that is actually achievable and make the world a safer place.	这将允许我们在第三世界国家 创造出个性化治疗的条件 并且价格完全可接受 从而使世界变得更加安全
I invite your interest as well as your involvement in driving this vision to a point of practical reality.	我希望大家能关注这项技术 更希望你们能投入进来 使我们的这个愿景 能够早日实现
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
Do you know how many species of flowering plants there are?	各位知道 有多少中开花植物么？
There are a quarter of a million -- at least those are the ones we know about -- a quarter of a million species of flowering plants.	有25万种 -- 至少我们知道的有这么多 -- 25万中开花植物。
And flowers are a real bugger.	而花儿是个麻烦事。
They're really difficult for plants to produce.	让植物繁育真的很困难。
They take an enormous amount of energy and a lot of resources.	需要大量的经历和许多资源。
Why would they go to that bother?	为什么会这么困扰？
And the answer of course, like so many things in the world, is sex.	当然，答案是，与世界上许多其他事物一样， 性别。
I know what's on your mind when you're looking at these pictures.	我知道当你们看这些图片时脑子里想的是什么。
And the reason that sexual reproduction is so important -- there are lots of other things that plants can do to reproduce.	有性繁殖如此重要的原因 -- 植物有许多其他的方式可以繁殖。
You can take cuttings; they can sort of have sex with themselves; they can pollinate themselves.	可以用插枝的方式； 可以同株两性繁殖； 可以同株授粉。
But they really need to spread their genes to mix with other genes so that they can adapt to environmental niches.	但它们确实需要传播它们的基因 与其他的基因混合， 这样它们才能生态环境。
Evolution works that way.	进化就是这样起作用的。
Now the way that plants transmit that information is through pollen.	现在植物传递这一信息的途径 是通过花粉。
Some of you may have seen some of these pictures before.	你们中一些人或许之前已经看过这些图片了。
As I say, every home should have a scanning electron microscope to be able to see these.	如我所说，每个家庭都应该有一台能看到这些的 扫描电子显微镜。
And there is as many different kinds of pollen as there are flowering plants.	有多少种开花植物就有 多少种不同类型的花粉。
And that's actually rather useful for forensics and so on.	这其实对法医学等等相当有用。
Most pollen that causes hay fever for us is from plants that use the wind to disseminate the pollen, and that's a very inefficient process, which is why it gets up our noses so much.	多数会导致我们患上花粉热的花粉 来自那些用风来 传播花粉的植物。 这是个非常低效的过程， 这也是为什么花粉总是跑到我们鼻子里。
Because you have to chuck out masses and masses of it, hoping that your sex cells, your male sex cells, which are held within the pollen, will somehow reach another flower just by chance.	因为其中大多数都被抛弃了， 希望包含在花粉中的生殖细胞， 雄性生殖细胞， 将能碰巧落到另一朵花上。
So all the grasses, which means all of the cereal crops, and most of the trees have wind-borne pollen.	所有的草，这意味着所有的谷物， 和多数的树 靠风传播花粉。
But most species actually use insects to do their bidding, and that's more intelligent in a way, because the pollen, they don't need so much of it.	但多数物种 实际上利用昆虫来完成这一过程。 在某种程度上这更聪明， 因为这样并不需要太多的花粉。
The insects and other species can take the pollen, transfer it directly to where it's required.	昆虫 和其他物种 能携带花粉， 把花粉直接转移到所需的地方去。
So we're aware, obviously, of the relationship between insects and plants.	很显然，我们注意到 昆虫和植物之间的关系。
There's a symbiotic relationship there, whether it's flies or birds or bees, they're getting something in return, and that something in return is generally nectar.	这是种共生关系， 无论是鸟儿还是蜜蜂， 它们都能获得回报， 通常获得的回报是花蜜。
Sometimes that symbiosis has led to wonderful adaptations -- the hummingbird hawk-moth is beautiful in its adaptation.	有时这种共生关系 会导致奇妙的适应性变化 -- 红裙小天蛾 是一种漂亮的适应性变化。
The plant gets something, and the hawk-moth spreads the pollen somewhere else.	植物也有收获， 天峨把花粉传播到了别处。
Plants have evolved to create little landing strips here and there for bees that might have lost their way.	植物进化了， 到处创建降落的跑道， 蜜蜂可能迷失其中。
There are markings on many plants that look like other insects.	许多植物上有些 看起来像是其他昆虫的标记。
These are the anthers of a lily, cleverly done so that when the unsuspecting insect lands on it, the anther flips up and whops it on the back with a great load of pollen that it then goes to another plant with.	这些是百合花的花粉囊， 非常巧妙， 因此当毫不知情的昆虫 落于其上时， 花粉囊翻转过来，带着许多花粉 击打在昆虫背部，这样就能跟随昆虫到其他植物那里。
And there's an orchid that might look to you as if it's got jaws, and in a way, it has; it forces the insect to crawl out, getting covered in pollen that it takes somewhere else.	有一种兰花 看起来就像是有下颚一般。 在某种程度上说，它的确有；它强迫昆虫爬过， 沾上花粉，并把花粉带往别的地方。
Orchids: there are 20,000, at least, species of orchids -- amazingly, amazingly diverse.	兰花：至少有 两万种兰花 -- 多种多样的令人惊异。
And they get up to all sorts of tricks.	它们有各种各样的花招。
They have to try and attract pollinators to do their bidding.	它们必须尝试并吸引传粉者 帮助它们完成这一过程。
This orchid, known as Darwin's orchid, because it's one that he studied and made a wonderful prediction when he saw it -- you can see that there's a very long nectar tube that descends down from the orchid.	这株兰花，被称为达尔文的兰花， 因为它曾被达尔文研究 并在他看到这种兰花时给出了奇妙的预测。 可以看到这儿有一个很长的花蜜管 从兰花中 垂下来。
And basically what the insect has to do -- we're in the middle of the flower -- it has to stick its little proboscis right into the middle of that and all the way down that nectar tube to get to the nectar.	基本上昆虫不得不做的是 -- 我们来到花的当中 -- 它把口器刺入 中间的部分 一路向下知道花蜜管 以得到花蜜。
And Darwin said, looking at this flower, "I guess something has coevolved with this."	达尔文说，看看这花， "我猜测有些事物与其共同进化了。"
And sure enough, there's the insect.	毫无疑问， 就是昆虫。
And I mean, normally it kind of rolls it away, but in its erect form, that's what it looks like.	我的意思时，通常它都是卷起来的， 但它伸直以后， 看起来是这样的。
Now you can imagine that if nectar is such a valuable thing and expensive for the plant to produce and it attracts lots of pollinators, then, just as in human sex, people might start to deceive.	现在可以想象一下 如果花蜜 这种如此有价值的事物 对植物来说生产的代价高昂 且又能吸引许多传粉者， 那么，就如在人类性行为中的那样， 人们或许开始相互欺骗。
They might say, "I've got a bit of nectar. Do you want to come and get it?"	它们或许会说，"我有些花蜜。你想来拿点么？"
Now this is a plant.	这是一株植物。
This is a plant here that insects in South Africa just love, and they've evolved with a long proboscis to get the nectar at the bottom.	这株植物 为南非的昆虫所喜爱。 它们进化出了长长的口器 以获取底部的花蜜。
And this is the mimic.	这是个模仿者。
So this is a plant that is mimicking the first plant.	这种植物在模仿前一种植物。
And here is the long-probosced fly that has not gotten any nectar from the mimic, because the mimic doesn't give it any nectar. It thought it would get some.	有一种长着长口器的苍蝇 它从假冒者那儿没得到任何花蜜。 因为假冒者没给它任何花蜜。它以为它可以得到。
So not only has the fly not got the nectar from the mimic plant, it's also -- if you look very closely just at the head end, you can see that it's got a bit of pollen that it would be transmitting to another plant, if only some botanist hadn't come along and stuck it to a blue piece of card.	因此，不但苍蝇 没有从假冒的植物那儿得到花蜜， 而且 -- 如果你非常近的观察 头的顶部，你会看到那儿有些花粉 这些花粉将被传播到其他植株上， 如果没有植物学家过来 把它粘到一张蓝色卡片上的话。
Now deceit carries on through the plant kingdom.	这种谎言遍布整个植物王国。
This flower with its black dots: they might look like black dots to us, but if I tell you, to a male insect of the right species, that looks like two females who are really, really hot to trot.	这朵带着黑点的花： 它们或许在我们看来像是黑点， 但我告诉各位，对适当物种的雄性昆虫来说， 这看起来像是两只 非常非常性感的雌性。
And when the insect gets there and lands on it, dousing itself in pollen, of course, that it's going to take to another plant, if you look at the every-home-should-have-one scanning electron microscope picture, you can see that there are actually some patterning there, which is three-dimensional.	当昆虫到达并在上面着陆时， 把自己浸入花粉中，当然，这些花粉将会被它带到其他植物那儿去， 如果看看每个家庭都应该有的扫描电子显微镜的图像， 就能看到实际上那儿有些图案， 三维的图案。
So it probably even feels good for the insect, as well as looking good.	它甚至能让昆虫感觉到舒服， 看起来也不错。
And these electron microscope pictures -- here's one of an orchid mimicking an insect -- you can see that different parts of the structure have different colors and different textures to our eye, have very, very different textures to what an insect might perceive.	这些电子显微镜图像 -- 这是一朵兰花在伪装成一只昆虫 -- 你能看到对我们的眼睛来说， 结构的不同部分有着不同的色彩和不同的纹理, 而昆虫或许能感知到 非常非常不同的纹理。
And this one is evolved to mimic a glossy metallic surface you see on some beetles.	这种兰花进化至能模仿 在一些甲壳虫身上看到的 有金属光泽的表面。
And under the scanning electron microscope, you can see the surface there -- really quite different from the other surfaces we looked at.	在扫描电子显微镜下 你能看到这表面 -- 这与我们看过的其他表面非常不同。
Sometimes the whole plant mimics an insect, even to us.	有时整个植物会 模仿成一只昆虫，即使我们看来也像是昆虫。
I mean, I think that looks like some sort of flying animal or beast.	我的意思是，我认为这看起来像是某种飞行的动物或野兽。
It's a wonderful, amazing thing.	是美妙而神奇的事物。
This one's clever. It's called obsidian.	这是它的聪明之处。它被称为黑曜石。
I think of it as insidium sometimes.	我认为它有时是狡猾的。
To the right species of bee, this looks like another very aggressive bee, and it goes and bonks it on the head lots and lots of times to try and drive it away, and, of course, covers itself with pollen.	对于适合种类的蜜蜂来说， 这看起来像是另一只非常有侵略性的蜜蜂， 它会飞过来用头撞击它许多许多次，试着赶走它， 当然，这会让它沾上花粉。
The other thing it does is that this plant mimics another orchid that has a wonderful store of food for insects.	它做的另一件事是 这种植物模仿成另一种 富含昆虫喜爱的 食物的兰花。
And this one doesn't have anything for them.	但其实什么也没有。
So it's deceiving on two levels -- fabulous.	因此它在两个层面上进行欺骗 -- 真难以置信。
Here we see ylang ylang, the component of many perfumes.	我们看到的是依兰， 有浓烈香味的部分。
I actually smelt someone with some on earlier.	实际上我之前闻到过。
And the flowers don't really have to be that gaudy.	这些花实际上没有必要这么艳丽。
They're sending out a fantastic array of scent to any insect that'll have it.	它们散发出奇妙的香味 吸引任何有兴趣的昆虫。
This one doesn't smell so good.	这朵花闻起来不怎么样。
This is a flower that really, really smells pretty nasty and is designed, again, evolved, to look like carrion.	这朵花 实际上闻起来非常难闻 再提一次，这是进化而来， 它看起来像是腐肉。
So flies love this.	因此苍蝇喜欢它。
They fly in and they pollinate.	苍蝇飞进去并帮其授粉。
This, which is helicodiceros, is also known as dead horse arum.	这是白星海芋， 也被称作死马海芋。
I don't know what a dead horse actually smells like, but this one probably smells pretty much like it.	我不知道死马闻起来什么味儿， 但这朵花或许闻起来非常像。
It's really horrible.	实在太可怕了。
And blowflies just can't help themselves.	绿头蝇情不自禁。
They fly into this thing, and they fly all the way down it.	飞入其中， 一路飞入其中。
They lay their eggs in it, thinking it's a nice bit of carrion, and not realizing that there's no food for the eggs, that the eggs are going to die, but the plant, meanwhile, has benefited, because the bristles release and the flies disappear to pollinate the next flower -- fantastic.	在上面产卵， 认为这是块很不错的腐肉， 没有意识到这儿可没有卵的食物，这些卵会死在这儿， 但同时这株植物会受益， 因为硬毛松开 苍蝇消失了， 授粉至另一朵花 -- 太奇妙了。
Here's arum, arum maculatum, "lords and ladies," or "cuckoo-pint" in this country.	这是海芋植物，欧海芋， 斑叶阿若母，在这个国家称为延龄草。
I photographed this thing last week in Dorset.	我上周在多塞特拍摄的这个。
This thing heats up by about 15 degrees above ambient temperature -- amazing.	这家伙加热升温 比环境温度大约高15度 -- 不可思议。
And if you look down into it, there's this sort of dam past the spadix, flies get attracted by the heat -- which is boiling off volatile chemicals, little midges -- and they get trapped underneath in this container.	如果看看它内部， 肉穗后面是个有点像大坝的东西， 苍蝇为热量所吸引 -- 这是种沸腾的挥发性化学物质，小虫 -- 它们被困在这一容器下面。
They drink this fabulous nectar and then they're all a bit sticky.	它们痛饮甜美的花蜜 接着都变得有点黏糊糊的。
At night they get covered in pollen, which showers down over them, and then the bristles that we saw above, they sort of wilt and allow all these midges out, covered in pollen -- fabulous thing.	在夜里它们被花粉覆盖， 由它们上面喷洒而下， 然后我们在上面看到的硬毛 变得枯萎让这些浑身花粉的小虫得以逃出 -- 真是难以置信。
Now if you think that's fabulous, this is one of my great favorites.	如果你认为这是难以置信的，这一个是我的最爱。
This is the philodendron selloum.	这是春羽蔓绿绒。
For anyone here from Brazil, you'll know about this plant.	在座从巴西来的人，应该都知道这种植物。
This is the most amazing thing.	这是最神奇的事物。
That sort of phallic bit there is about a foot long.	它的雄蕊 有大约一英尺长。
And it does something that no other plant that I know of does, and that is that when it flowers -- that's the spadix in the middle there -- for a period of about two days, it metabolizes in a way which is rather similar to mammals.	它有一种 据我所知没任何其他植物拥有的能力， 当它盛开时 -- 这是在中间的肉穗 -- 大约两天时间， 它产生了某种程度的代谢变化 有些类似哺乳动物。
So instead of having starch, which is the food of plants, it takes something rather similar to brown fat and burns it at such a rate that it's burning fat, metabolizing, about the rate of a small cat.	并没拥有淀粉， 这是植物的食物， 它拥有十分类似褐色脂肪的东西 以燃烧脂肪的速度 燃烧它，进行代谢， 大约以一只小猫的速度进行。
And that's twice the energy output, weight for weight, than a hummingbird -- absolutely astonishing.	按体重比，是蜂鸟的能量输出的 两倍 -- 绝对惊人。
This thing does something else which is unusual.	它还做了些不寻常的事。
Not only will it raise itself to 115 Fahrenheit, 43 or 44 degrees Centigrade, for two days, but it keeps constant temperature.	不仅是它将升温至155华氏度， 43或44摄氏度，两天， 而且它将保持恒温。
There's a thermoregulation mechanism in there that keeps constant temperature.	其中有一个温度调节机制 用于保持恒温。
"Now why does it do this," I hear you ask.	为什么要这么做？我听到你们问。
Now wouldn't you know it, there's some beetles that just love to make love at that temperature.	目前你们还不知道， 有些甲壳虫就喜欢在这一温度下交配。
And they get inside, and they get it all on.	它们钻进去，沾满花粉。
And the plant showers them with pollen, and off they go and pollinate.	植物在它们身上撒满花粉， 让它们离开，去授粉。
And what a wonderful thing it is.	这是多么奇妙的事情啊。
Now most pollinators that we think about are insects, but actually in the tropics, many birds and butterflies pollinate.	现在我们认为 大多数传粉者是昆虫， 但实际上在热带地区， 许多鸟类和蝴蝶也进行传粉。
And many of the tropical flowers are red, and that's because butterflies and birds see similarly to us, we think, and can see the color red very well.	许多热带的花朵是红色的， 这是因为蝴蝶和鸟类 与我们相似，我们认为， 能非常好的看到红色。
But if you look at the spectrum, birds and us, we see red, green and blue and see that spectrum.	但如果你看看光谱， 鸟类和我们，我们看到红色，绿色和蓝色 看到这一光谱。
Insects see green, blue and ultraviolet, and they see various shades of ultraviolet.	昆虫看到绿色，蓝色和紫外线， 它们能看到各种明暗的紫外线。
So there's something that goes on off the end there.	在这后面还有些色彩。
"And wouldn't it be great if we could somehow see what that is," I hear you ask.	"如果我们能看到那些颜色难道不好吗，"我听到你们问。
Well yes we can.	是的，我们能看到。
So what is an insect seeing?	那么昆虫看到的是什么？
Last week I took these pictures of rock rose, helianthemum, in Dorset.	上周我拍了这些沙漠座莲的照片， 半日花属，在多塞特。
These are little yellow flowers like we all see, little yellow flowers all over the place.	正如我们所看到的，这是些小黄花， 到处都是这种小黄花。
And this is what it looks like with visible light.	在可见光下它看起来是这样的。
This is what it looks like if you take out the red.	如果去除红色看起来是这样。
Most bees don't perceive red.	多数蜜蜂无法感知红色。
And then I put some ultraviolet filters on my camera and took a very, very long exposure with the particular frequencies of ultraviolet light and this is what I got.	接着我在我的镜头前放上紫外线滤镜 在紫外线特定的频率下 长时间的曝光， 就得到了这张照片。
And that's a real fantastic bull's eye.	这像是个真实的奇妙的靶心。
Now we don't know exactly what a bee sees, any more than you know what I'm seeing when I call this red.	现在我们不知道 蜜蜂到底看到的是什么， 当我称之为红色时， 你们知道我在看什么。
We can't know what's going on in -- let alone an insect's -- another human being's mind.	我们无法知道其中发生了什么，不管是昆虫， 还是其他人类的脑中。
But the contrast will look something like that, so standing out a lot from the background.	但对比度看起来大概是这样。 从背景中突显出来。
Here's another little flower -- different range of ultraviolet frequencies, different filters to match the pollinators.	这是另一种小花 -- 位于不同的紫外线频率区间， 不同的滤镜 来匹配不同的传粉者。
And that's the sort of thing that it would be seeing.	它看起来大概是这样。
Just in case you think that all yellow flowers have this property -- no flower was damaged in the process of this shot; it was just attached to the tripod, not killed -- then under ultraviolet light, look at that.	为了避免你们认为 所有黄色的花都有这一属性 -- 在拍摄的过程中没有损伤花朵； 只是把它贴在三脚架上， 没有摘下来 -- 在紫外光下， 看看这个。
And that could be the basis of a sunscreen because sunscreens work by absorbing ultraviolet light.	这能作为防晒霜的基础， 因为防晒霜是通过吸收紫外光来起作用的。
So maybe the chemical in that would be useful.	因此或许其中的化学物质有些用处。
Finally, there's one of evening primrose that Bjorn Rorslett from Norway sent me -- fantastic hidden pattern.	最后，这是一朵夜来香 是挪威的Bjorn Rorslett发给我的 -- 奇妙的隐藏模式。
And I love the idea of something hidden.	我喜欢这种隐藏的方式。
I think there's something poetic here, that these pictures taken with ultraviolet filter, the main use of that filter is for astronomers to take pictures of Venus -- actually the clouds of Venus.	我觉得这很有诗意。 这些照片是用紫外线滤镜拍摄的， 这种滤镜的主要用途是 天文学家用来拍摄金星 -- 实际上是金星上的云层。
That's the main use of that filter.	这是这种滤镜的主要用途。
Venus, of course, is the god of love and fertility, which is the flower story.	当然，金星是爱与生育之神， 这是花的物语。
And just as flowers spend a lot of effort trying to get pollinators to do their bidding, they've also somehow managed to persuade us to plant great fields full of them and give them to each other at times of birth and death, and particularly at marriage, which, when you think of it, is the moment that encapsulates the transfer of genetic material from one organism to another.	正如花朵们花了这么多精力 尝试吸引传粉者接受它们的邀请， 不知何故，它们也成功地让我们相信其中含有丰富内涵 我们在出生和逝世时 相互送出花朵， 尤其是婚礼时， 当你想到它时， 就在这一刻内 基因物质从 迁移一个有机体到另一个。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
The theme of my talk today is, "Be an artist, right now."	我今天演讲的主题是： 做个艺术家吧，现在就开始！
Most people, when this subject is brought up, get tense and resist it: "Art doesn't feed me, and right now I'm busy.	大多数对听到这个主题可能都会变得很紧张 并且对其满是抗拒 "艺术不适合我，我现在很忙啦"
I have to go to school, get a job, send my kids to lessons ... " You think, "I'm too busy. I don't have time for art."	"我得上学啊、找工作啊，" "我要送孩子去上学啊" 你觉得，"你太忙了，你没有时间玩艺术"
There are hundreds of reasons why we can't be artists right now.	我们拒绝艺术的理由千种万种，
Don't they just pop into your head?	这些理由是不是总是会突然冒出来？
There are so many reasons why we can't be, indeed, we're not sure why we should be.	我们有千百种理由没法做个艺术家， 但事实上，我们只是不清楚我们为什么应该做艺术家。
We don't know why we should be artists, but we have many reasons why we can't be.	我们只是不知道我们为什么要做艺术家， 但我们却找各种理由说服自己做不了艺术家。
Why do people instantly resist the idea of associating themselves with art?	为什么人们会条件反射般的抵触艺术？
Perhaps you think art is for the greatly gifted or for the thoroughly and professionally trained.	也许你会认为艺术只是那些天赋异禀的人才能玩得起的， 或者是那些透彻地受过专业艺术教育的人才能参与的。
And some of you may think you've strayed too far from art.	而有些人也许还觉得自己离艺术太远了。
Well you might have, but I don't think so.	也许你真的离艺术很远，但我却不这么认为。
This is the theme of my talk today.	而这便是我今天演讲的主题。
We are all born artists.	人人生来都是艺术家。
If you have kids, you know what I mean.	如果你有小孩,你就会明白。
Almost everything kids do is art.	几乎所有的小孩都会摆弄点艺术。
They draw with crayons on the wall.	他们用蜡笔在墙上画画。
They dance to Son Dam Bi's dance on TV, but you can't even call it Son Dam Bi's dance -- it becomes the kids' own dance.	他们对着电视里孙丹菲的舞蹈翩翩起舞， 他们跳的舞都不像是孙丹菲的舞蹈， 而是具有他们自己风格的舞蹈。
So they dance a strange dance and inflict their singing on everyone.	孩子们跳一些奇怪的舞， 并用自己的歌声伴奏。
Perhaps their art is something only their parents can bear, and because they practice such art all day long, people honestly get a little tired around kids.	也许他们创造的艺术，只有他们的父母们才能欣赏 并且他们一天到晚都在进行这一类艺术创作， 所以人们其实跟这些孩子们在一起久了都会感到厌倦。
Kids will sometimes perform monodramas -- playing house is indeed a monodrama or a play.	孩子们有时候会一个人演部戏， 过家家实际上就是一种独角戏。
And some kids, when they get a bit older, start to lie.	有些孩子长大一些后， 会开始撒谎。
Usually parents remember the very first time their kid lies.	父母们通常都会记得孩子第一次撒谎的情景。
They're shocked.	父母们会觉得很震惊。
"Now you're showing your true colors," Mom says. She thinks, "Why does he take after his dad?"	妈妈会说："你开始显露你的真面目了"， 她会想："为什么孩子会学父亲撒谎？"
She questions him, "What kind of a person are you going to be?"	妈妈会质问孩子："你到底会成为一个什么样的人？"
But you shouldn't worry.	但其实你不用担心。
The moment kids start to lie is the moment storytelling begins.	孩子们开始撒谎的时候就是他们开始创造故事的时候。
They are talking about things they didn't see.	他们所说的东西是他们从没见过的。
It's amazing. It's a wonderful moment.	这很神奇。这是一个极好的时刻。
Parents should celebrate.	父母们应该感到高兴。
"Hurray! My boy finally started to lie!"	"太好了，我孩子...我孩子终于开始撒谎了！"
All right! It calls for celebration.	这是需要庆祝的
For example, a kid says, "Mom, guess what? I met an alien on my way home."	例如一个孩子说："妈妈，你知道吗？ 我今天回家路上遇见一个外星人"
Then a typical mom responds, "Stop that nonsense."	一个一般的母亲可能会回答："别瞎说。"
Now, an ideal parent is someone who responds like this: "Really? An alien, huh? What did it look like? Did it say anything?	而好的父母却会这样回答： "真的吗？ 碰见外星人了？" "他长什么样啊？他有没有说什么啊？"
Where did you meet it?" "Um, in front of the supermarket."	"你在哪儿遇见他的啊？" "在超市的门口"
When you have a conversation like this, the kid has to come up with the next thing to say to be responsible for what he started.	这样的一段对话后， 孩子就不得不继续编一些负责任的内容， 来完成他已经开了头的故事。
Soon, a story develops.	很快，故事就产生了。
Of course this is an infantile story, but thinking up one sentence after the next is the same thing a professional writer like me does.	当然，这只是一个幼稚的故事， 但想出一个又一个的句子， 和像我这样的专业作家所做的事是一样的。
In essence, they are not different.	本质上而言，二者并没有什么区别。
Roland Barthes once said of Flaubert's novels, "Flaubert did not write a novel.	罗兰·巴特曾经评价福楼拜的小说时说道： "福楼拜写的不仅仅是小说"
He merely connected one sentence after another.	"他不仅仅是将一个句子连接在另一个句子后面"
The eros between sentences, that is the essence of Flaubert's novel."	"字里行间的爱才是福楼拜小说的精华所在。"
That's right -- a novel, basically, is writing one sentence, then, without violating the scope of the first one, writing the next sentence.	这就对了——一部小说，基本上先写一个句子 然后再在第一个句子的基础上 写下一个句子。
And you continue to make connections.	你会继续进行连接。
Take a look at this sentence: Yes, it's the first sentence of Franz Kafka's "The Metamorphosis."	来看一下这个句子： 这就是弗朗兹•卡夫卡《变形记》中的第一个句子。
Writing such an unjustifiable sentence and continuing in order to justify it, Kafka's work became the masterpiece of contemporary literature.	写下这么一个不合常理的句子 然后继续下去并证明它， 使得卡夫卡的作品成为当代文学的大师作品。
Kafka did not show his work to his father.	卡夫卡没有把他的作品给他父亲看，
He was not on good terms with his father.	他跟他父亲关系不太好，
On his own, he wrote these sentences.	他靠自己写下了这些句子。
Had he shown his father, "My boy has finally lost it," he would've thought.	如果他给他父亲看，他父亲会想："我的孩子脑子是不是有问题"。
And that's right. Art is about going a little nuts and justifying the next sentence, which is not much different from what a kid does.	这就对了，艺术就是这样有一点点着迷的、 一直用下一个句子去证明的， 正如小孩所做的没什么太大差别。
A kid who has just started to lie is taking the first step as a storyteller.	一个刚开始说谎的小孩 正是迈开了编造故事的第一步。
Kids do art.	小孩是在搞艺术。
They don't get tired and they have fun doing it.	他们不觉得累，他们这么做很有乐趣。
I was in Jeju Island a few days ago.	前几天，我在济州岛。
When kids are on the beach, most of them love playing in the water.	大多数沙滩上的孩子都喜欢在水中嬉戏
But some of them spend a lot of time in the sand, making mountains and seas -- well, not seas, but different things -- people and dogs, etc.	但有一些孩子花了很多时间在玩沙子， 做了山啊海啊——好吧，没有海， 反正是不同的东西--人啊、狗啊什么的。
But parents tell them, "It will all be washed away by the waves."	但是家长会说， "这都会被海浪冲走的"
In other words, it's useless.	换句话说，这是毫无用处的，
There's no need.	完全没有需要。
But kids don't mind.	但孩子们不在乎，
They have fun in the moment and they keep playing in the sand.	他们很快乐 继续玩他们的沙子。
Kids don't do it because someone told them to.	孩子们不这样做，是因为人们告诉他们。
They aren't told by their boss or anyone, they just do it.	如果没有任何人告诉他们不该做什么 他们就会去做。
When you were little, I bet you spent time enjoying the pleasure of primitive art.	我敢打赌你们小时候肯定有很多享受原始艺术的欢乐时光。
When I ask my students to write about their happiest moment, many write about an early artistic experience they had as a kid.	我让我的学生写下他们的最快乐的一刻， 大多数学生写了他们孩提时代的早期艺术经历。
Learning to play piano for the first time and playing four hands with a friend, or performing a ridiculous skit with friends looking like idiots -- things like that.	比如最早学弹钢琴，与朋友一起四手联弹， 或者与朋友们一起象傻子一样表演荒诞的滑稽戏--诸如此类
Or the moment you developed the first film you shot with an old camera.	或者是第一次用旧录像机搞一个电影，
They talk about these kinds of experiences.	他们谈到了这样一些经历。
You must have had such a moment.	你们也肯定会有这样的时光，
In that moment, art makes you happy because it's not work.	艺术使你变得快乐 因为这不是工作，
Work doesn't make you happy, does it? Mostly it's tough.	工作没法使你快乐，不是吗？工作总是辛苦的。
The French writer Michel Tournier has a famous saying.	法国作家米歇尔•图尼埃尔有一句名言，
It's a bit mischievous, actually.	事实上，这句话有一点促狭的，
"Work is against human nature. The proof is that it makes us tired."	"工作是反人性的，因为它让人感到疲劳"
Right? Why would work tire us if it's in our nature?	对吗？如果工作是我们人性的一部分，为什么会让我们厌倦？
Playing doesn't tire us.	玩从来就不会让我们厌倦。
We can play all night long.	我们可以玩一个通宵，
If we work overnight, we should be paid for overtime.	但如果工作一个通宵，我们就要加班工资。
Why? Because it's tiring and we feel fatigue.	为什么？因为工作让我们感到厌倦和疲劳。
But kids, usually they do art for fun. It's playing.	但是孩子们，通常为了好玩而搞艺术，这是在玩。
They don't draw to sell the work to a client or play the piano to earn money for the family.	他们不需要把作品卖给客户， 或为了赚钱养家而弹钢琴。
Of course, there were kids who had to.	当然，有些孩子需要那样做。
You know this gentleman, right?	大家都认识他，是吧？
He had to tour around Europe to support his family -- Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart -- but that was centuries ago, so we can make him an exception.	他为了养家不得不进行欧洲巡回演出 沃尔夫冈·阿马德乌斯·莫扎特 但这是几个世纪以前的事，所以我们可以把他作为例外
Unfortunately, at some point our art -- such a joyful pastime -- ends.	不幸的是，在某些时候我们的艺术 如此愉悦的消遣 — 已经结束了。
Kids have to go to lessons, to school, do homework and of course they take piano or ballet lessons, but they aren't fun anymore.	孩子们不得不去学习、去学校、做作业 当然他们也会上钢琴课、芭蕾课， 但是他们不再因此而快乐。
You're told to do it and there's competition. How can it be fun?	你为了一个竞赛而去练习，会有乐趣吗？
If you're in elementary school and you still draw on the wall, you'll surely get in trouble with your mom.	在小学，如果你还在墙上乱画， 你就肯定会遇到麻烦，
Besides, if you continue to act like an artist as you get older, you'll increasingly feel pressure -- people will question your actions and ask you to act properly.	除此之外， 如果当你长大，你还在从事艺术， 你会越来越感到压力—— 人们会质疑你的行为并要求你做出适当的行为。
Here's my story: I was an eighth grader and I entered a drawing contest at school in Gyeongbokgung.	说说我的故事： 我在景福宫学校8年级的时候参加了一个绘画比赛，
I was trying my best, and my teacher came around and asked me, "What are you doing?"	我尽了自己最大的努力，然后我的老师走过来 问我，"你在干什么？"
"I'm drawing diligently," I said.	我说："我在勤奋地画画"
"Why are you using only black?"	"为什么你只用黑色？"
Indeed, I was eagerly coloring the sketchbook in black.	事实上，我在速写本上急切地涂着黑色。
And I explained, "It's a dark night and a crow is perching on a branch."	我解释说， "这是一个漆黑的夜晚，一只乌鸦栖息在一根树枝上。"
Then my teacher said, "Really? Well, Young-ha, you may not be good at drawing but you have a talent for storytelling."	然后我的老师说， "真的吗？好吧，英涵，你也许不太擅长画画，但你是一个讲故事的天才。"
Or so I wished.	但这只是我的想象，
"Now you'll get it, you rascal!" was the response.	我得到的回应是，"太不像话了，你这个小混蛋"
"You'll get it!" he said.	他说，"太不像话了"
You were supposed to draw the palace, the Gyeonghoeru, etc., but I was coloring everything in black, so he dragged me out of the group.	你应该画宫殿，庆会楼，等等。 但我把所有的都涂成了黑色， 所以他把我赶了出去。
There were a lot of girls there as well, so I was utterly mortified.	当时那里还有许多女孩子在场， 我感到特别囧
None of my explanations or excuses were heard, and I really got it big time.	完全没有听我的解释或是借口 我真的是受到了奇耻大辱。
If he was an ideal teacher, he would have responded like I said before, "Young-ha may not have a talent for drawing, but he has a gift for making up stories," and he would have encouraged me.	如果他是一个好老师，他就会象我刚才那么说， "英涵也许不是一个画画的人才， 但他具有编造故事的天赋，"而且他也会鼓励我。
But such a teacher is seldom found.	但是这样的老师很难找得到。
Later, I grew up and went to Europe's galleries -- I was a university student -- and I thought this was really unfair.	后来长大后，我到了欧洲的画廊—— 我当时是一个大学生——我想这真的很不公平，
Look what I found.	看一下我找到了什么
Works like this were hung in Basel while I was punished and stood in front of the palace with my drawing in my mouth.	象这样的作品挂在巴塞尔，而我却得到了惩罚， 被罚站在宫殿前，嘴巴里塞着我的画。
Look at this. Doesn't it look just like wallpaper?	看看这个，这不像是一张墙纸？
Contemporary art, I later discovered, isn't explained by a lame story like mine.	我之后发现，当代艺术，并不需要象我那样的蹩脚故事，
No crows are brought up.	没有什么乌鸦，
Most of the works have no title, Untitled.	大多数作品没有标题，
Anyways, contemporary art in the 20th century is about doing something weird and filling the void with explanation and interpretation -- essentially the same as I did.	不管怎样，20世纪的当代艺术 就是做些怪异的东西，用说明和解释填充空隙—— 本质上跟我以前做的差不多。
Of course, my work was very amateur, but let's turn to more famous examples.	当然，我的作品是很业余的， 但是让我们来看看更多著名的例子。
This is Picasso's.	这是毕加索，
He stuck handlebars into a bike seat and called it "Bull's Head." Sounds convincing, right?	他把自行车把手粘到坐垫上，称之为"牛头" 听起来很有说服力，对吧？
Next, a urinal was placed on its side and called "Fountain".	下一个，一个小便器侧着放，称之为"泉"，
That was Duchamp.	这是杜尚。
So filling the gap between explanation and a weird act with stories -- that's indeed what contemporary art is all about.	所以用故事填充解释和怪异行为之间的沟壑—— 这就是关于当代艺术的一切。
Picasso even made the statement, "I draw not what I see but what I think."	毕加索甚至宣称， "我不是画我所看到的，而是画我所想"
Yes, it means I didn't have to draw Gyeonghoeru.	是的，这就是说我并不需要画庆会楼。
I wish I knew what Picasso said back then. I could have argued better with my teacher.	我希望我那时就知道毕加索说的话，我就可以更好地跟老师争论。
Unfortunately, the little artists within us are choked to death before we get to fight against the oppressors of art.	不幸的是，在我们可以与艺术的压迫者反抗之前， 我们的小艺术家们就被扼杀了，
They get locked in.	他们被禁锢了，
That's our tragedy.	这就是我们的悲剧。
So what happens when little artists get locked in, banished or even killed?	所以如果小艺术家们被禁锢、被放逐甚至被扼杀，会发生什么？
Our artistic desire doesn't go away.	我们的艺术欲望不会消失。
We want to express, to reveal ourselves, but with the artist dead, the artistic desire reveals itself in dark form.	我们想表达、展示自我， 但是艺术家已经死亡，那么艺术的欲望只能以黑暗的形式展现，
In karaoke bars, there are always people who sing "She's Gone" or "Hotel California," miming the guitar riffs.	在卡拉OK，经常有人假装吉他即兴演唱 "她走了"或"加州旅馆" 这种吉他即兴
Usually they sound awful. Awful indeed.	通常他们唱得很糟糕，真的很糟糕，
Some people turn into rockers like this.	有些人变成像这样的摇滚乐手，
Or some people dance in clubs.	或有人在会所跳舞，
People who would have enjoyed telling stories end up trolling on the Internet all night long.	那些以说故事为乐的人 会在互联网上通宵达旦的高唱。
That's how a writing talent reveals itself on the dark side.	这就是写作天赋所显露的黑暗的一面。
Sometimes we see dads get more excited than their kids playing with Legos or putting together plastic robots.	有时候，我们看到爸爸们玩力高玩具或装配塑料机器人 比自己的孩子更加来劲，
They go, "Don't touch it. Daddy will do it for you."	他们会说"别碰它，老爸帮你做"
The kid has already lost interest and is doing something else, but the dad alone builds castles.	孩子们已经失去了兴趣，开始做其他的事情， 但是爸爸却在那儿自个儿摆弄城堡，
This shows the artistic impulses inside us are suppressed, not gone.	这显示了我们内心的艺术冲动被抑制了，还没有消失。
But they can often reveal themselves negatively, in the form of jealousy.	但他们往往以嫉妒的方式显示出负面影响。
You know the song "I would love to be on TV"? Why would we love it?	你知道有首歌叫"我想上电视" ？我们为什么会喜欢它？
TV is full of people who do what we wished to do, but never got to.	电视里充满了那些在做我们想做 但从来不会做的事情的人，
They dance, they act -- and the more they do, they are praised.	他们跳舞、他们表演——他们做得越多，越得到赞赏，
So we start to envy them.	所以我们开始嫉妒他们，
We become dictators with a remote and start to criticize the people on TV.	我们变成了拿遥控器的独裁者，并开始批评电视上的人。
"He just can't act." "You call that singing? She can't hit the notes."	"他不会表演"、"你能说那叫唱歌？简直跟不上节拍"
We easily say these sorts of things.	我们很容易说这些事情，
We get jealous, not because we're evil, but because we have little artists pent up inside us.	我们嫉妒了，并不是因为我们是恶魔， 而是因为我们内心有一个被积郁的小小艺术家，
That's what I think.	我就是这么认为的。
What should we do then?	那么我们该怎么做呢？
Yes, that's right.	嗯，对，
Right now, we need to start our own art.	就从现在开始，我们需要开始我们自己的艺术。
Right this minute, we can turn off TV, log off the Internet, get up and start to do something.	就从这一刻开始，我们关掉电视， 拔掉网线， 站起来，去做些什么事情。
Where I teach students in drama school, there's a course called Dramatics.	我教书的戏剧学校， 有一门课叫戏剧表演，
In this course, all students must put on a play.	在这门课上，所有的学生必须提供一出戏，
However, acting majors are not supposed to act.	然而，表演专业的学生并不需要表演，
They can write the play, for example, and the writers may work on stage art.	比如他们可以写剧本， 作家也许可以去搞舞台艺术，
Likewise, stage art majors may become actors, and in this way you put on a show.	同样，舞台艺术专业的学生也许成为演员 用这种方式来提供一出戏。
Students at first wonder whether they can actually do it, but later they have so much fun. I rarely see anyone who is miserable doing a play.	学生们起初疑惑他们是否能够真正做到， 但是后来他们体验到了更多的乐趣 我很少看到有人很痛苦地在搞这出戏。
In school, the military or even in a mental institution, once you make people do it, they enjoy it.	在学校、在军队或甚至是在精神病院，一旦让人们这么做，大家都会很享受这种乐趣。
I saw this happen in the army -- many people had fun doing plays.	我看到在军队所发生的 许多人都在这样的戏剧中体验到了乐趣。
I have another experience: In my writing class, I give students a special assignment.	我还有另外一个经历： 在我的写作课上，我布置给学生一个很特殊的作业。
I have students like you in the class -- many who don't major in writing.	在我的班上有些学生就像你们一样 许多人并不是写作专业，
Some major in art or music and think they can't write.	而是一些艺术专业或音乐专业的学生 他们觉得自己不会写作
So I give them blank sheets of paper and a theme.	所以我给他们一些空白纸张和一个主题，
It can be a simple theme: Write about the most unfortunate experience in your childhood.	可以是一些很简单的主题： 写一下你孩提时代最倒霉的一次经历，
There's one condition: You must write like crazy. Like crazy!	但是有一个条件：你必须拼命写、拼命写！
I walk around and encourage them, "Come on, come on!" They have to write like crazy for an hour or two.	我来回走并鼓励他们， "快点，快点！"他们不得不拼命地写1到2个小时，
They only get to think for the first five minutes.	他们只有前5分钟可以思考，
The reason I make them write like crazy is because when you write slowly and lots of thoughts cross your mind, the artistic devil creeps in.	我让他们拼命写的原因是 当你慢慢写的时候会有很多想法纠结在你的头脑， 艺术的恶魔就会蔓延，
This devil will tell you hundreds of reasons why you can't write: "People will laugh at you. This is not good writing!	这个恶魔会告诉你上百个 你不能写的理由： "人们会嘲笑你，这个写得不好！"
What kind of sentence is this? Look at your handwriting!"	这是什么句子啊？看看你的字迹！"
It will say a lot of things.	它会说很多事情，
You have to run fast so the devil can't catch up.	你必须得跑得很快，那么这个恶魔就无法抓住你
The really good writing I've seen in my class was not from the assignments with a long deadline, but from the 40- to 60-minute crazy writing students did in front of me with a pencil.	我在课堂上看到真正写得好的 不是用很长时间完成的作业， 而是在40-60分钟内在我面前 用铅笔疯狂拼命写的学生完成的，
The students go into a kind of trance.	学生们进入了一种恍惚的状态，
After 30 or 40 minutes, they write without knowing what they're writing.	30-40分钟后，他们已经不知道他们在写什么了。
And in this moment, the nagging devil disappears.	而在这个时刻，唠叨的恶魔消失了，
So I can say this: It's not the hundreds of reasons why one can't be an artist, but rather, the one reason one must be that makes us artists.	所以我可以这么说： 不存在上百个你不能成为艺术家的理由， 而是只有一个你必须成为艺术家的理由，
Why we cannot be something is not important.	我们不能成为什么并不重要，
Most artists became artists because of the one reason.	大多数艺术家成为艺术家都只有一个原因，
When we put the devil in our heart to sleep and start our own art, enemies appear on the outside.	如果我们让内心的恶魔睡去并开始我们自己的艺术， 敌人就被赶了出去，
Mostly, they have the faces of our parents.	通常，他们有着我们父母的面孔，
Sometimes they look like our spouses, but they are not your parents or spouses.	有时候他们看起来象我们的配偶， 但是他们并不是你的父母或配偶，
They are devils. Devils.	他们是恶魔，恶魔。
They came to Earth briefly transformed to stop you from being artistic, from becoming artists.	他们来到地球，经过巧妙转化， 来阻止你的艺术天赋，阻止你成为一个艺术家，
And they have a magic question.	他们有一个魔法问题，
When we say, "I think I'll try acting. There's a drama school in the community center," or "I'd like to learn Italian songs," they ask, "Oh, yeah? A play? What for?"	当我们说，"在社区中心有一个戏剧学校，我想尝试表演，"或 "我想学习意大利歌曲。"他们就会问"噢，是吗？为了什么？"
The magic question is, "What for?"	这个魔法问题就是"为了什么？"
But art is not for anything.	但是艺术并不是为了什么，
Art is the ultimate goal.	艺术是一个终极目标，
It saves our souls and makes us live happily.	它拯救我们的灵魂，让我们快乐地生活，
It helps us express ourselves and be happy without the help of alcohol or drugs.	它帮助我们表达自我，让我们快乐，远离酒精和毒品，
So in response to such a pragmatic question, we need to be bold.	所以对这样一个务实的问题， 我们需要勇敢地面对，
"Well, just for the fun of it. Sorry for having fun without you," is what you should say. "I'll just go ahead and do it anyway."	"好吧，就是为了找乐子。对不起，没带你一起找乐子" 或者你应该说，"不管怎样，我就这么地了"
The ideal future I imagine is where we all have multiple identities, at least one of which is an artist.	我想象理想的未来是，我们都有多重身份， 其中至少有一个是艺术家，
Once I was in New York and got in a cab. I took the backseat, and in front of me I saw something related to a play.	有一次我到了纽约，上了一辆出租车，坐在后座， 我看到我前面有些东西与戏剧有关，
So I asked the driver, "What is this?"	所以我就问司机，"这是什么？"
He said it was his profile. "Then what are you?" I asked. "An actor," he said.	他说这是他的简介，"那么你是干什么的？"我问。他说："演员"
He was a cabby and an actor. I asked, "What roles do you usually play?"	他是一个出租车司机和一个演员 我问他"你通常扮演什么角色？"
He proudly said he played King Lear.	他自豪地说他扮演李尔王。
King Lear.	李尔王！
"Who is it that can tell me who I am?" -- a great line from King Lear.	"谁能告诉我我是谁？"——李尔王中一句经典台词，
That's the world I dream of.	这就是我梦想的世界，
Someone is a golfer by day and writer by night.	有人白天是高尔夫球员晚上是作家，
Or a cabby and an actor, a banker and a painter, secretly or publicly performing their own arts.	或者出租车司机和演员，银行家和画家， 秘密地或公开地表演他们自己的艺术。
In 1990, Martha Graham, the legend of modern dance, came to Korea.	玛莎•格拉汉姆，一个现代舞蹈的传奇人物，1990年来到韩国，
The great artist, then in her 90s, arrived at Gimpo Airport and a reporter asked her a typical question: "What do you have to do to become a great dancer?	伟大的艺术家，以她90多岁的高龄到达了金浦机场， 一个记者问了她一个很典型的问题： "你怎么做才成为一个伟大的舞蹈家？
Any advice for aspiring Korean dancers?"	对有志的韩国舞蹈家有什么忠告吗？
Now, she was the master. This photo was taken in 1948 and she was already a celebrated artist.	现在她是大师级的人物，这张照片拍摄于1948年，那时她已经是知名艺术家了，
In 1990, she was asked this question.	但在1990年她被问到这样的问题，
And here's what she answered: "Just do it."	她是这么回答的： "Just do it." "只管去做吧"
Wow. I was touched.	喔，我被感动到了，
Only those three words and she left the airport. That's it.	只留下这三个字她就离开了机场，就这么多，
So what should we do now?	那么现在我们该干什么呢？
Let's be artists, right now. Right away. How?	让我们做个艺术家，此时、此地，怎么样？
Just do it!	Just do it! "只管去做吧！"
Thank you.	谢谢！
An event seen from one point of view gives one impression.	（影像：同一个事件，从一个角度看 让人产生一种印象。
Seen from another point of view, it gives quite a different impression.	从另一个角度看，又让人产生一种完全不同的印象。
But it's only when you get the whole picture you can fully understand what's going on.	但只有看到整个画面，才能了解 全部真相。）
Sasha Vucinic: It's a great clip, isn't it?	沙沙维基尼：非常好的一个短片，是不是？
And I found that in 29 seconds, it tells more about the power of, and importance of, independent media than I could say in an hour.	我发现这个短片在29秒内所表达的 独立媒体的威力和重要性 比我讲一个小时的话还要有力。
So I thought that it will be good to start with it.	所以我认为今天的演讲以它开头很恰当。
And also start with a little bit of statistics.	下面我们来看一些统计数据。
According to relevant researchers, 83 percent of the population of this planet lives in the societies without independent press.	据有关研究表明，这个星球上83％的人口 生活在没有独立媒体的社会中。
Think about that number: 83 percent of the population on the whole planet does not really know what is going on in their countries.	仔细想想这个数字：这个星球上83％的人 并不知道他们的国家里究竟在发生什么事。
The information they get gets filtered through somebody who either twists that information, or colors that information, does something with it.	他们得到的信息已经被别人 以歪曲事实、添油加醋、或其他方式 过滤了。
So they're deprived of understanding their reality.	就这样，他们被剥夺了了解事实的权利。
That is just to understand how big and important this problem is.	以上说的这些让我们了解了这个问题有多大、多重要。
Now those of you who are lucky enough to live in those societies that represent 17 percent, I think should enjoy it until it lasts.	那么在座的各位中生活在另外那17％的社会里的， 希望你们在独立媒体尚存的时候好好珍惜。
You know, Sunday morning, you flick the paper, get your cappuccino.	星期日早晨，你翻开报纸，品着咖啡，
Enjoy it while it lasts.	在它尚存时好好珍惜。
Because as we heard yesterday, countries can lose stars from their flags, but they can also lose press freedom, as I guess Americans among us can tell us more about.	这么说是因为我们昨天听说了，一个国家不仅能丢掉她国旗上的星星， 还能丢掉新闻自由， 我想我们中间的美国朋友们就此有很多话要讲。
But that's totally another and separate topic.	那完全是另一个话题了。
So I can go back to my story.	所以现在回到我自己的故事。
My story starts -- the story I want to share -- starts in 1991.	我要讲的故事始于1991年。
At that time I was running B92, the only independent, for that matter the only electronic media, in the country.	那时我在办B92，是整个国家唯一的独立、 甚至是唯一的电子媒体。
And I guess we were sharing -- we had that regular life of the only independent media in the country, operating in hostile environment, where government really wants to make your life miserable.	我想那时我们的处境——我们过的是一个国家里 唯一独立媒体司空见惯的生活——政府非制你于悲惨境地中不可， 这样一个敌对的环境下。
And there are different ways.	他们运用各种方式，
Yeah, it was the usual cocktail: a little bit of threats, a little bit of friendly advice, a little bit of financial police, a little bit of text control, so you always have somebody who never leaves your office.	也就是那些惯用伎俩： 一点儿威胁，一点儿友善建议， 一点儿经济管制，一点儿文字控制。 所以总有这么一个人从不离开我们的办公室。
But what they really do, which is very powerful, and that is what governments in the late '90s started doing if they don't like independent media companies -- you know, they threaten your advertisers.	但是他们真正做的一件很有威力的， 也就是90年代后期那些政府开始做的一件事，就是 如果他们不喜欢独立媒体公司， 他们就威胁你的广告客户。
Once they threaten your advertisers, market forces are actually, you know, destroyed, and the advertisers do not want to come -- no matter how much does it make sense for them -- do not want to come and advertise.	一旦他们威胁你的广告商， 市场力量实际上就被毁害了， 不管那些广告商有多少理由应该来， 他们都不愿再来刊登广告了。
And you have a problem making ends meet.	这下你的生计就出问题了。
At that time at the beginning of the '90s, we had that problem, which was, you know, survival below one side, but what was really painful for me was, remember, the beginning of the '90s, Yugoslavia is falling apart.	当时在90年代初期，我们遇到的难题 一方面是生存， 但最让我痛心的是我以下要讲的。 大家记得，90年代初，南斯拉夫正在瓦解。
We were sitting over there with a country in a downfall, in a slow-motion downfall.	我们在一旁观望一个国家垮台， 慢动作一般的垮台。
And we all had all of that on tapes.	我们把这一切都录了下来。
We had the ability to understand what was going on.	我们有能力了解整个事件的过程。
We were actually recording history.	其实就是在纪录历史。
The problem was that we had to re-tape that history a week later; because if we did not, we could not afford enough tapes to keep archives of that history.	问题是一周后，我们要重录历史， 因为如果不重录，我们买不起足够的录像带 将那段历史存档。
So if I gave you that picture, I don't want to go too long on that.	我只想给大家一个概况，不在说这件事上多费时间。
In that context a gentleman came to my office at that time.	在那样一个背景下，一位先生来到我的办公室。
It was still 1991.	当时还是1991年。
He was running a media systems organization which is still in business, the gentleman is still in business.	那位先生在经营一家媒体管理机构， 这个机构现在还有生意，这位先生也还有生意。
And what did I know at that time about media systems?	当时我哪懂什么媒体管理啊？
I would think media systems were organizations, which means they should help you.	我认为既然是媒体管理机构， 就应该帮助我们。
So I prepared two plans for that meeting, two strategic plans: the small one and the big one.	我为同先生的会议制定了两个战略方案： 一个小方案，一个大方案。
The small one was, I just wanted him to help us get those damn tapes, so we can keep that archive for the next 50 years.	小方案是：我就想让他帮我们 把那些该死的录像带弄到手， 好让我们把完整的档案存放50年。
The big plan was to ask him for a 1,000,000-dollar loan.	大的方案是找他要一百万元的贷款，
Because I thought, I still maintain, that serious and independent media companies are great business.	因为我当时——直到现在也仍然认为 严肃的独立媒体是很有潜力的企业。
And I thought that B92 will survive and be a great company once Milosevic is gone, which turned out to be true.	B92一定会存活下去，而且一旦米洛舍维奇下台 （后来确如我所料），B92就会成为一家优秀的企业。
It's now probably either the biggest or the second biggest media company in the country.	现在B92恐怕不是那个国家最大 也是第二大的媒体公司了。
And I thought that the only thing that we needed at that time was 1,000,000-dollar loan to take us through those hard times.	我当时认为我们唯一需要的就是 一百万块钱带我们度过难关。
To make a long story short, the gentleman comes into the office, great suit and tie.	长话短说，这位先生来到了我们的办公室， 很漂亮的西服领带。
I gave him what I thought was a brilliant explanation of the political situation and explained how hard and difficult the war will be.	我给了他我当时认为是很精彩的一番阐述： 政治气候多恶劣，战争 会多艰难。
Actually, I underestimated the atrocities, I have to admit.	现在想起来，我当时还低估了暴行的残忍程度呢。
Anyway, after that whole, big, long explanation, the only question he had for me -- and this is not a joke -- is, are we paying royalties after we broadcast music of Michael Jackson?	总之，一番长篇阐述之后， 他问的唯一一个问题是——我说的可不是笑话—— 我们广播迈克尔·杰克逊的歌是否要交 版权费？
That was really the only question he had.	这确实是他问的唯一一个问题。
He left, and I remember being actually very angry at myself because I thought there must be an institution in the world that is providing loans to media companies.	我记得他走后我很生我自己的气 因为我觉得这个世界上肯定有一个给媒体公司 提供贷款的机构。
It's so obvious, straight in your face, and somebody must have thought of it.	这个主意太显而易见了， 一定有人已经想到了。
Somebody must have started something like that.	一定有人已经开启了这类的先例。
And I thought, I'm just dumb and I cannot find it.	我当时想：我这么笨，找不到这样的一个机构的。
You know, in my defense, there was no Google at that time; you could not just Google in '91.	不过我也有辩词：当时没有谷歌； 91年不能用谷歌搜索。
So I thought that that's actually my problem.	所以我当时认为是我本身有问题。
Now we go from here, fast forward to 1995.	从这里开始，快放到1995年。
I have -- I left the country, I have a meeting with George Soros, trying for the third time to convince him that his foundation should invest in something that should operate like a media bank.	我已经离开了那个国家。我要会面乔治·索罗斯， 这是我第三次力争说服 他的基金会投资一个类似 媒体银行的机构。
And basically what I was saying is very simple.	我说的大体很简单：
You know, forget about charity; it doesn't work.	忘掉慈善机构，行不通的；
Forget about handouts; 20,000 dollars do not help anybody.	忘掉捐款，两万块钱帮不了任何人。
What you should do is you should treat media companies as a business.	我们应该视媒体公司为商业机构。
It's business anywhere.	当今，商业无处不在。
Media business, or any other business, it needs to be capitalized.	媒体商业和其它商业一样，需要资本。
And what these guys need, actually, is access to capital.	他们真正需要的是获取资本的途径。
So third meeting, arguments are pretty well exercised.	这第三次会面，我的论据摆的很彻底了。
At the end of the meeting he says, look, it is not going to work; you will never see your money back; but my foundations will put 500,000 dollars so you can test the idea.	会面将结束时他说， "我跟你说，这个想法行不通，你的投资看不见回报。 但是我的基金会给你50万，让你验证这个主意。
See that it will not work.	证明它不会成功。"
He said, I'll give you a rope to hang yourself.	他说，"我等于给了你一条上吊绳。"
I knew two things after that meeting.	会后我弄清了两件事。
First, under no circumstances I want to hang myself.	第一，不论怎样我都不会上吊。
And second, that I have no idea how to make it work.	第二，我不知道如何将我的主意付诸现实。
You see, at the level of a concept, it was a great concept.	从理论的层面看，这是个很好的概念。
But it's one thing to have a concept; it's a totally separate thing to actually make it work.	但是有个好概念是一回事， 将其付诸事实又完全是另外一回事。
So I had absolutely no idea how that could actually work.	所以我完全不知道如何实际运作。
Had the wrong idea; I thought that we can be a bank.	我最初的想法是错误的，以为我们可以成为银行。
You see banks -- I don't know if there are any bankers over here; I apologize in advance -- but it's the best job in the world.	你想想银行——不知道在座的有没有银行家， 我提前道歉，银行家确实是世界上最好的工作了。
You know, you find somebody who is respectable and has a lot of money.	你找到一个有名望 又有钱的人。
You give them more money; they repay you that over a time.	你给他更多的钱；他在一段时间内偿还给你。
You collect interest and do nothing in between.	在此期间，你什么都不做，只收利息。
So I thought, why don't we get into that business?	所以我当时想：我们为什么不做这种买卖呢？
So here we are having our first client, brilliant.	我们的第一个客户来了。很杰出——
First independent newspaper in Slovakia.	斯洛伐克的第一家独立报社。
The government cutting them off from all the printing facilities in Bratislava.	政府不允许他们在布拉迪斯拉发 任何一家印刷厂印刷。
So here's the daily newspaper that has to be printed 400 kilometers away from the capital.	这么一份日报 要在离首都400公里外印刷。
It's a daily newspaper with a deadline of 4 p.m.	一份每天下午4点发行的日报。
That means that they have no sports; they have no latest news; circulation goes down.	这就意味着他们没有体育新闻， 没有最新报导。发行量下降。
It's a kind of very nice, sophisticated way how to economically strangle a daily newspaper.	这是一种非常漂亮高明的 从经济上扼杀一份日报的方式。
They come to us with a request for a loan.	这家报社向我们寻求贷款。
They want to -- the only way for them to survive is to get a printing press.	目的就是要买一台印刷机——他们存活下去的 唯一出路。
And we said, that's fine; let's meet; you'll bring us your business plan, which eventually they did.	我们说，好啊，那咱们就会面吧， 你把你的业务计划拿来。他们最终倒是拿来了。
We start the meeting.	我们的会面开始。
I get these two pieces of paper, not like this, A4 format, so it's much bigger.	我手里拿着两张纸，不是这样的纸，是A4的， 比这纸要大很多。
A lot of numbers there. A lot of numbers.	上面有很多数字，很多数字。
But however you put it, you know, the numbers do not make any sense.	但是不管你横竖怎么看，都看不懂 这些数字是什么意思。
And that's the best they could do.	他们只能做到这个程度。
We were the best that they could do.	他们真的只能做到这个程度。
So that is how we understood what our method is.	所以我们就这样明白了应该如何运作。
It's not a bank. We had to actually go into these companies and earn our return by fixing them -- by establishing management systems, by providing all that knowledge, how do you run a business on one side -- while they all know how to run, how to create content.	我们不是银行。我们必须进入 这些公司里去挣我们的回报， 解决他们的问题——建立管理系统， 提供商业运作的知识， ——而他们精通的是如何撰写报纸的内容。
Just quickly on the results.	简短的说一下我们的成绩。
Over these 10 years, 40 million dollars in affordable financing, average interest rate five percent to six percent.	10年内，4千万元可负担贷款， 平均利息5％到6％。
Lately we are going wild, charging seven percent from time to time.	最近我们有些疯狂：有时候要7％的利息。
We do it in 17 countries of the developing world.	我们在17个发展中国家运作。
And here is the most stunning number.	下面是最惊人的数字。
Return rate -- the one that Soros was so worried about -- 97 percent.	回报率——也是索罗斯最担心的——97％。
97 percent of all the scheduled repayments came back to us on time.	97％还款按期回来了。
What do we typically finance?	我们一般融资给那些项目？
We finance anything that a media company would need, from printing presses to transmitters.	一个媒体公司所需要的任何东西， 从印刷机到发射机。
What is most important is we do it either in form of loans, equities, lease -- whatever is appropriate for, you know, supporting anybody.	最重要的是我们融资的形式—— 贷款、入股、或租赁—— 哪种形式适合你，我们提供哪种。
But what is most important here is, who do we finance?	但最最重要的是，我们给谁融资？
We believe that in the last 10 years companies that we've financed are actually the best media companies in the developing world.	我认为过去10年内我们融资的公司 是发展中国家里最好的 媒体公司。
That is a "Who is Who" list.	有这么一个"名人录"。
And I could spend hours talking about them, because they're all kind of heroes.	他们的故事我能讲几个小时， 因为他们在某种程度上都是英雄。
And I can, but I'll give you just, maybe one, and depending on time I may give you two examples who we work with.	但是我就讲一个我们接触的例子， 如果时间允许，我可能讲给大家 两个例子。
You see we started working in Eastern and Central Europe, and moved to Russia.	我们起初在东欧和中欧运作， 然后搬到俄罗斯。
Our first loan in Russia was in Chelyabinsk.	我们在俄罗斯的第一份贷款是在车里雅宾斯克州。
I'll bet half of you have never heard of that place.	在座的一半恐怕根本没有听说过那个地方。
In the south of Russia there's a guy called Boris Nikolayevich Kirshin, who is running an independent newspaper there.	在俄罗斯南部，有一个叫 鲍里斯·尼古拉耶维奇［语音不清］的人在那儿 办一份独立报纸。
The city was closed until early '90s because, of all things, they were producing glass for Tupolev planes.	这个城市直到90年代初都是封闭的 因为他们恰巧给筒式［语音不清］飞机生产玻璃。
Anyway, he's running independent newspaper there.	总之，他在那儿办一份独立报纸。
After two years working with us, he becomes the most respected newspaper in that small place.	与我们合作两年后，他的报纸在 那个小城市声望最高。
Governor comes to him one day, actually invites him to come to his office.	有一天总督来找他， 哦，是请他去总督的办公室。
He goes and sees the governor. The governor says, Boris Nikolayevich, I understand you are doing a great job, and you are the most respected newspaper in our district.	他去见总督。总督说： 鲍里斯·尼古拉耶维奇，我知道你的报办得很棒， 也是我们区域里最有声望的。
And I want to offer you a deal.	我想跟你作笔交易。
Can you please give me your newspaper for the next nine months, because I have elections -- there are elections coming up in nine months.	今后九个月里，请你把报纸交给我办 因为九个月后 我有选举。
I will not run, but it's very important for me who is going to succeed me.	我不参选，但是很重视 由谁继任我。
So give me the paper for nine months. I'll give it back to you.	所以把你的报纸交给我九个月，我再还给你，
I have no interest in being in media business.	我没有兴趣长期待在媒体业里。
How much would that cost?	你出个价钱？
Boris Nikolayevich says, "It's not for sale."	鲍里斯·尼古拉耶维奇说："我不卖。"
The governor says, "We will close you."	总督说："我就把你关了。"
Boris Nikolayevich says, "No, you cannot do it."	鲍里斯·尼古拉耶维奇说："你不能关。"
Six months later the newspaper was closed.	六个月后报社被关掉。
Luckily, we had enough time to help Boris Nikolayevich take all the assets out of that company and bring him into a new one, to get all the subscription lists, rehire staff.	但幸好我们有足够的时间帮助鲍里斯·尼古拉耶维奇 把原来公司的资本挪到一个新的公司里， 把订阅名单弄到手，重新招聘雇员。
So what the governor got was an empty shell.	最后总督得到的只是个空壳。
But that is what happens if you're in business of independent media, and if you are a banker for independent media.	在独立媒体业里干、当独立媒体业的银行家 就是这样。
So it sounds like a great story.	听起来这是个很了不起的故事。
Somewhere down the road we opened a media management center.	干了一段时间，我们开了一家媒体管理中心，
We started our media lab, sounds like a real great story.	开创了一家媒体研究所。听起来真的很了不起。
But there is a second angle to that.	但是这个故事还有另外一个视角。
The second angle, like in this clip.	就像那个短片一样，另一个视角就是
If you take the camera above, you start thinking about these numbers again.	当你用摄像机俯视的时候，再想想 那几个数字。
40 million dollars over 10 years spread over 17 countries.	4千万元10年的时间再摊到17个国家里。
That is not too much, is it?	并不很多，是不是？
It's actually just a drop in the sea.	其实就是杯水车薪。
Because when you think about the importance, some of the issues that we were talking about last night -- this last session we had about Africa and his hypothetical 50 billion dollars destined for Africa.	因为当你考虑到问题的重要性时—— 昨晚我们讨论的一些问题， 比如上一轮关于非洲的演讲以及 其中假想的输送给非洲的500亿元。
All of those, not all, half of those problems mentioned last night -- government accountability, corruption, how do you fight corruption, giving voice to unheard, to poor -- it's why independent media is in business.	昨晚提到的所有问题，至少一半问题—— 政府问责制，腐败，如何反腐败， 给底层人、穷人说话的机会—— 这就是为什么独立媒体有市场，
And it's why it was invented.	就是为什么当初独立媒体会诞生。
So from that perspective, what we did is just really one drop in the sea of that need that we can identify.	所以从这个角度看，独立媒体这么大市场 我们做的真是微不足道。
Now ours is just one story.	我们的故事只是一个故事。
I'm sure that in this room there are, like, 15 other wonderful stories of nonprofits doing spectacular work.	我相信这间屋子里还有15个关于公益组织 大有作为的精彩故事。
Here is where the problem is, and I'll explain to you as well as I can what the problem is.	而这就是问题所在， 我尽我所能给大家解释问题到底是什么。
And it's called fundraising.	问题的名字叫筹资。
Imagine that this third of this room is filled with people who represent different foundations.	设想这间屋子这三分之一坐满了 各个基金会的代表。
Imagine two thirds over here running excellent organizations, doing very important work.	另外这三分之二在运作优秀的公益组织， 做着非常重要的工作。
Now imagine that every second person over here is deaf, does not hear, and switch the lights off.	再设想这边有一半人 耳聋，听不见，还在黑暗之中。
Now that is how difficult it is to match people from this side of the room with people of that side of the room.	把屋子这边的人匹配给 屋子那边的人 的难度就是这样。
So we thought that some kind of a big idea is needed to reform, to totally rethink fundraising.	所以我们觉得要改革、重新思考筹资， 需要一个大创意。
You know, instead of people running in this dark, trying to find their own match, who will be willing, who has the same goals.	以不至于人人在暗中 盲目寻找志同道合的 对象。
Instead of all of that we thought there is -- something new needs to be invented.	我们认为要发明一种新的筹资方式 来代替原来的方式。
And we came up with this idea of issuing bonds, press freedom bonds.	我们想出了发行债券的主意， 新闻自由债券。
If there are investors willing to finance U.S. government budget deficit, why wouldn't we find investors willing to finance press freedom deficit?	如果有投资者愿给美国政府预算赤字 提供资金， 难道我们就找不到愿给"新闻自由赤字" 投资的人？
We've decided to do it this fall; we will issue them, probably in denominations of 1,000 dollars.	我们已经决定了今年秋天就开始发行 估计是面值1000元的债券。
I don't want to advertise them too much; that's not the point.	我不想在这儿给债券做广告，这不是今天讲的要点。
But the point is, if we ever survive to actually issue them, find enough investors that this can be considered a success, there's nothing stopping the next organization to start to issue bonds next spring.	要点是，如果我们能存活到发行债券的那一天， 找到足够的投资者而使其成功， 就说不定另一个组织 明年春天开始发行债券。
And those can be environmental bonds.	可能是环保债券。
And then two weeks later, Iqbal Quadir can issue his electricity in Bangladesh bonds.	可能再过两个星期，伊卡柏·卡迪尔开始 在孟加拉国发行他的电力债券。
And before you know it, any social cause can be actually financed in this way.	不知不觉中，任何一项公益事业 都可以这样融资了。
Now we do daydreaming in 11:30 with 55 seconds left.	现在11：30我们还有55秒的时间做白日梦。
But let's take the idea further.	我们把这个想法再推进一步。
You do it, you start it in the States, because it's, you know, concepts are very, very close to American minds.	我们在美国开始做这件事 因为这些概念很贴近美国人的思维方式。
But you can actually bring it to Europe, too.	然而你完全可以把它带到欧洲去，
You can bring it to Asia.	带到亚洲去。
You can, once you have all of those different points, you can make it easy for investors.	当这些地方都在这样做的时候， 你可以把投资变得更简易。
Put all of those bonds at one place and they sit down and click.	把这些债券放在一起， 让投资者坐下来点击。
Once you have more than 10 of them you have to develop some kind of a matrix.	达到10种债券时 就得制定一些指标。
What do investors get?	投资者获得的是什么？
On one side financial, on the other side social.	一方面是经济利益，一方面是对社会的影响。
So that brings the idea of some kind of rating agency, Morningstar type.	由此产生了类似晨星的债券评级机构的 想法。
It says, you know, social impact over here is spectacular, five stars.	比如说，某债券对社会影响力很强，给五个星。
Financial, they give you one percent, only one star.	经济回报1％，只给一个星。
Now take it to the last step.	再把这个想法提升到最后一层。
Once you have all of that put together, there's not one reason why you couldn't actually have a marketplace for all of that, where you cannot dispose of all of those bonds in a pretty quick way.	一旦这些条件齐全了， 就没有理由不能设立一个 能很快 将这些债券脱手的交易场所。
And in that way you organize the financing so there are no dark rooms, no blind people running around to find each other.	这样组织融资 就没有黑屋子，没有人盲目的 互相寻找对方了。
Thank you.	谢谢。
So I really consider myself a storyteller.	我真的觉得自己很会讲故事，
But I don't really tell stories in the usual way, in the sense that I don't usually tell my own stories.	但是我其实不是用一般的方式讲故事， 也就是说我基本上不讲自己的故事。
Instead, I'm really interested in building tools that allow large numbers of other people to tell their stories, people all around the world.	相反，我对搭建平台 让世界各地的所有人能够讲他们自己的故事 很感兴趣。
I do this because I think that people actually have a lot in common.	我这样做是因为我觉得人有很多共同点。
I think people are very similar, but I also think that we have trouble seeing that.	我觉得人与人之间很相似， 但我也认为人们不太容易发现这些相似点。
You know, as I look around the world I see a lot of gaps, and I think we all see a lot of gaps.	当我纵观世界的时候，我能看到很多的差异，对吧， 我们所有人都能看到很多的差异。
And we define ourselves by our gaps.	其实我们是通过人与人之间的差异来定义我们自己的，
There's language gaps, there's ethnicity and racial gaps, there's age gaps, there's gender gaps, there's sexuality gaps, there's wealth and money gaps, there's education gaps, there's also religious gaps.	对吧，我们有语言差异， 种族差异，年龄差异， 性别差异，性向差异， 财富和金钱差距，教育程度差距， 宗教差异。
You know, we have all these gaps and I think we like our gaps because they make us feel like we identify with something, some smaller community.	对吧，我们有所有这些差距和不同，而我觉得人们喜欢这些差异， 因为他们让我们感觉与众不同， 属于不同于大众的小众。
But I think that actually, despite our gaps, we really have a lot in common.	但我也认为尽管我们有那么多的差异， 实际上我们真的也有很多共同点，
And I think one thing we have in common is a very deep need to express ourselves.	其中的一个共同点就是我们内心深处 都急需表达自我。
I think this is a very old human desire. It's nothing new.	这是一个非常原始的人类欲求，并不是什么新的概念。
But the thing about self-expression is that there's traditionally been this imbalance between the desire that we have to express ourselves and the number of sympathetic friends who are willing to stand around and listen.	但问题是自古以来 这个表达自我的欲望总得不到满足， 因为虽然我们渴望表达自我， 但是总是找不到那么多有同感的朋友 愿意站在边上听。
This, also, is nothing new.	这也不是什么新发现。
Since the dawn of human history, we've tried to rectify this imbalance by making art, writing poems, singing songs, scripting editorials and sending them in to a newspaper, gossiping with friends. This is nothing new.	从人类发展伊始，我们就一直试图战胜这种不平衡， 通过制作艺术品，写诗歌，唱歌， 写读后感寄给报社， 与朋友闲扯八卦。这也不是什么新鲜事。
What's new is that in the last several years a lot of these very traditional physical human activities, these acts of self-expression, have been moving onto the Internet.	真正的新鲜事是：在过去几年中 很多这些传统的表达自我的人类活动， 已经逐渐转移到互联网上。
And as that's happened, people have been leaving behind footprints, footprints that tell stories of their moments of self-expression.	而在这个过程中，人们会留下了痕迹， 那些他们表达自我时讲的故事的痕迹。
And so what I do is, I write computer programs that study very large sets of these footprints, and then try to draw conclusions about the people who left them -- what they feel, what they think, what's different in the world today than usual, these sorts of questions.	所以我做的事情就是，编程序 搜集和研究大量的这些痕迹， 然后尽量从中得出关于留下痕迹的那些人一些结论， 比如他们有什么感觉，他们想些什么， 今天的世界和以往有哪些不同， 诸如此类的问题。
One project that explores these ideas, which was made about a year ago, is a piece called We Feel Fine.	其中一个探索这些想法的项目 在大概一年前启动， 做一个名字叫作"我们感觉不错"的程序。
This is a piece that every two or three minutes scans the world's newly-posted blog entries for occurrences of the phrases "I feel" or "I am feeling."	这个程序每两三分钟 扫描一下全球新张贴的博客日志， 寻找"我觉得"或者"我正感觉"这两个词组。
And when it finds one of those phrases, it grabs the sentence up to the period, and then automatically tries to deduce the age, gender and geographical location of the person that wrote that sentence.	如果发现这些词组， 就提取这一整句话， 然后自动试着推断写这句话的人的 年龄，性别和地理位置。
Then, knowing the geographical location and the time, we can also then figure out the weather when that person wrote the sentence.	然后，通过获得的地理位置和时间， 我们还可以找到 那个人写那句话当时的天气。
All of this information is saved in a database that collects about 20,000 feelings a day.	所有这些信息都保存在一个数据库里， 每天大约能搜集2万条感觉的数据。
It's been running for about a year and a half.	这个项目已经运行了大概一年半，
It's reached about seven-and-a-half million human feelings now.	至今为止已经搜集了大约750万条人们的感觉。
And I'll show you a glimpse of how this information is then visualized. So this is We Feel Fine.	现在我大概演示一下 我们把这些信息可视化之后的样子。请看，这就是"我们感觉不错"。
What you see here is a madly swarming mass of particles, each of which represents a single human feeling that was stated in the last few hours.	你们看到的是一大堆纷乱蠕动的粒子， 每个粒子代表一句 在刚过去的几小时之内发表的感觉。
The color of each particle corresponds to the type of feeling inside -- so that happy, positive feelings are brightly colored.	每个粒子的颜色对应于内心感受的类型： 快乐积极的感觉用鲜艳的色彩表示，
And sad, negative feelings are darkly colored.	而伤心消极的情绪用灰暗的颜色表示。
The diameter of each dot represents the length of the sentence inside, so that the large dots contain large sentences, and the small dots contain small sentences.	每个粒子的直径 代表那句话的长度， 因此大的粒子表示较长的句子， 小的粒子代表短的句子。
Any dot can be clicked and expanded. And we see here, "I would just feel so much better if I could curl up in his arms right now and feel his affection for me in the embrace of his body and the tenderness of his lips."	任何粒子都可以点击显示更多信息。请看这句， "如果我现在能蜷缩在他的怀里， 从他怀抱和温柔的嘴唇感觉他对我的爱恋， 我会感觉多好啊"。
So it gets pretty hot and steamy sometimes in the world of human emotions.	可见，有时候这些人类情感世界中的东西 会非常撩人和煽情。
And all of these are stated by people: "I know that objectively it really doesn't mean much, but after spending so many years as a small fish in a big pond, it's nice to feel bigger again."	而这一切都是人们自己说的。 "我知道客观上那并没有多大的意义， 但像大池塘的一条小鱼一样地生活了那么多年之后， 能再感觉变大了是多么美好。"
The dots exhibit human qualities. They kind of have their own physics, and they swarm wildly around, kind of exploring the world of life.	这些粒子能展示人的特性。他们又像有自己的生命， 疯狂地四处游动，欲探索生命的世界。
And then they also exhibit curiosity.	他们也显示出好奇的模样。
You can see a few of them are swarming around the cursor right now.	你们可以看到现在有一些粒子在鼠标周围蠕动，
You can see some other ones are swarming around the bottom left corner of the screen around six words. Those six words represent the six movements of We Feel Fine. We're currently seeing Madness.	另外一些 在左下角的 6个词周围游动。这6个词代表了"我们感觉不错"项目的6个模式。 我们现在看到的是"疯狂"。
There's also Murmurs, Montage, Mobs, Metrics and Mounds.	另外还有"悄悄话"，"剪辑"，"同党"，"度量"和"果冻"。
And I'll walk you through a few of those now.	现在我和你们一起看看其中几个。
Murmurs causes all of the feelings to fly to the ceiling.	"悄悄话"把所有情绪吹到屏幕顶上。
And then, one by one, in reverse chronological order, they excuse themselves, entering the scrolling list of feelings.	然后，一个接一个的按从新到旧的顺序 自己运行，进到一个滚动的感觉清单里面，
"I feel a bit better now."	"我现在感觉好一点了。"
"I feel confused and unsure of what the hell I want to do."	"我感到困惑，不知道我到底想干什么。"
"I feel gypped out of something awesome here."	"我感觉虽然上当了，但是收获了一些很棒的东西。"
"I feel so free; I feel so good."	"我觉得很自由，感觉非常好。"
"I feel like I'm in this fog of depression that I can't get out of."	"我觉得像是在一团郁闷的迷雾中，不可自拔。"
And you can click any of these to go out and visit the blog from which it was collected. And in that way, you can connect with the authors of these statements if you feel some degree of empathy.	你也可以点击任何一个粒子 去查看它们的博客来源，通过这样 就可以与这些博客的作者联系， 如果那些话让你觉得有同感的话。
The next movement is called Montage.	下面这个模式叫作"剪辑"。
Montage causes all of the feelings that contain photographs to become extracted and display themselves in a grid.	"剪辑"把所有包含照片的感觉抽出来， 显示成一个点阵。
This grid is then said to represent the picture of the world's feelings in the last few hours, if you will.	这个照片点阵就代表了 前几个小时的世界情绪，可以这么说。
Each of these can be clicked and we can blow it up.	每一张图片都可以点击放大。
We see, "I just feel like I'm not going to have fun if it's not the both of us." That was from someone in Michigan.	这里说，"我只是觉得如果不是我们两人一起经历的事， 都不会让我开心。"这来自一个密歇根州的人。
We see, "I feel like I have been at a computer all day."	这里说，"我感觉24小时都对着电脑"。
These are automatically constructed using the found objects: "I think I feel a little full."	这些都是用通过"剪辑"的设置自动搜索的句子。 "我觉得有点吃撑了。"
The next movement is called mobs.	接下来这个模式称为"同党"。
Mobs provides different statistical breakdowns of the population of the world's feelings in the last few hours.	"同党"对全世界在过去几个小时的感觉 做统计分类。
We see that "better" is the most frequent feeling right now, followed by "good," "bad," "guilty," "right," "down," "sick" and so on.	我们发现"好些了"是现在最常见的感觉， 其次是好，不好，愧疚，不错，沮丧，恶心等。
We can also get a gender breakdown.	我们还可以按性别分类。
And we see that women are slightly more prolific talking about their emotions in the last few hours than men.	我们发现在刚才几个小时中， 女人谈自己的情绪比男人要多。
We can do an age breakdown, which gives us a histogram of the world's emotional distribution by age.	我们也可以按年龄划分， 就能得到世界的情感按照年龄分布的柱状图。
We see people in their twenties are the most prolific, followed by teenagers, and then people in their thirties, and it dies out very quickly from there.	可以看到20多岁的人是最活跃的， 然后是青少年，然后是30多岁的人， 其他年龄段的就基本上不怎么讲了。
In weather, the feelings assume the physical characteristics of the weather that they represent, so that the ones collected on a sunny day swirl around as if they're part of the sun.	可以按天气来分类，我们把 感觉特征和天气特征的相似联系起来， 那么那些象征阳光灿烂天气的情绪 不断旋转着，仿佛它们就是太阳的一部分。
The cloudy ones float along as if they're on a breeze.	象征多云的情绪飘浮着，仿佛乘风来去。
The rainy ones fall down as if they're in a rainstorm, and the snowy ones kind of flutter to the ground.	象征下雨情绪的粒子坠落下来，就像是在下暴雨。 象征下雪的粒子就像雪花一样洒落地面。
Finally, location causes the feelings to move to their positions on a world map showing the geographical distribution of feelings.	最后，按位置分类可以把感觉的来源地 显示在世界地图上，显示出那些感觉的地理分布。
Metrics provides more numerical views on the data.	"度量"对数据提供更多的数量分析。
We see that the world is feeling "used" at 3.3 times the normal level right now.	可以看到，现在世界上感觉"被利用了"的程度 是平常的3.3倍。
They're feeling "warm" at 2.9 times the normal level, and so on.	他们正感到比平时温暖2.9倍，等等。
Other views are also available.	还有其他的数量分析。
Here are gender, age, weather, location.	刚才看的是性别，年龄，天气，位置。
The final movement is called Mounds.	最后一个模式被称作"山丘"。
It's a bit different from the others.	这个跟刚才的几个有点不同。
Mounds visualizes the entire dataset as large, gelatinous blobs which kind of jiggle.	"山丘"把整个数据库形象地表示为大果冻似的的小山， 有点摇晃。
And if I hold down my cursor, they do a little dance.	如果按住鼠标，他们会抖动。
We see "better" is the most frequent feeling, followed by "bad."	我们看见"好些了"是最常见的感觉，其次是"不好"。
And then if I go over here, the list begins to scroll, and there are actually thousands of feelings that have been collected.	然后如果我移到这里，列表就开始滚动， 这里实际上已经收集了成千上万的感觉。
You can see the little pink cursor moving along, representing our position.	你可以看到这个粉红色的光标在移动， 代表我们的位置。
Here we see people that feel "slipping," "nauseous," "responsible."	这里我们看到人们感到"下滑"，"恶心"，"负责"。
There's also a search capability, if you're interested in finding out about a certain population.	如果你想看看具体某些人的情况的话， 它还有搜索功能。
For instance, you could find women who feel "addicted" in their 20s when it was cloudy in Bangladesh.	比如说，你可能发现 在孟加拉国多云的时候更多女人们希望她们能永远20岁
But I'll spare you that.	关于这个我就不多说了。
So here are some of my favorite montages that have been collected: "I feel so much of my dad alive in me that there isn't even room for me."	那么这里是我收集的最喜欢的一些"剪辑"： "我觉得爸爸给我的爱多到都没有我自己存在的地方了。"
"I feel very lonely."	"我感到很孤独。"
"I need to be in some backwoods redneck town so that I can feel beautiful."	"我要到一些边远的乡村去， 那样我才觉得自己漂亮。"
"I feel invisible to you."	"我觉得你眼中没有我。"
"I wouldn't hide it if society didn't make me feel like I needed to."	"我不会隐瞒，除非这个社会非逼我这么做。"
"I feel in love with Carolyn." "I feel so naughty."	"我觉得爱上了卡罗琳。" "我觉得我很调皮。"
"I feel these weirdoes are actually an asset to college life."	"我觉得这些怪人根本是大学生活的财富所在。"
"I love how I feel today."	"我爱今天的感觉。"
So as you can see, We Feel Fine uses a technique that I call "passive observation."	所以你们可以看到，"我们感觉不错"项目用了一个 叫"被动观察"的技术，
What I mean by that is that it passively observes people as they live their lives. It scans the world's blogs and looks at what people are writing, and these people don't know they're being watched or interviewed.	意思是说它被动地观察人们的生活。 它扫描全世界的博客， 看人们写些什么， 而人们不知道有东西在观察他们。
And because of that, you end up getting very honest, candid, sincere responses that are often very moving.	所以 人们就非常诚实，坦率而真挚的回帖 常常相当感人。
And this is a technique that I usually prefer in my work because people don't know they're being interviewed.	这是我在工作中通常喜欢用的一种技术， 因为人们不知道自己被观察。
They're just living life, and they end up just acting like that.	他们只是过自己的生活，就是平时最自然的状态。
Another technique is directly questioning people.	另一种方法是直接提问。
And this is a technique that I explored in a different project, the Yahoo! Time Capsule, which was designed to take a fingerprint of the world in 2006.	这是我在另一个项目"雅虎时间胶囊" 摸索出来的技术， 这个项目的目的是总结2006年的世界的个性特征。
It was divided into ten very simple themes -- love, anger, sadness and so on -- each of which contained a single, very open-ended question put to the world: What do you love? What makes you angry?	它分成10个非常简单的主题—— 爱，生气，悲伤等—— 每个主题都是向全世界提的一个没有固定答案的问题： 你爱什么？你为什么而生气？
What makes you sad? What do you believe in? And so on.	什么会让你伤心？你相信什么？等等。
The time capsule was available for one month online, translated into 10 languages, and this is what it looked like.	这个时间胶囊放在网上一个月， 翻译成10种语言，看进来是这个样子，
It's a spinning globe, the surface of which is entirely composed of the pictures and words and drawings of people that submitted to the time capsule.	一个旋转的球， 球表面完全由人们发送给时间胶囊的 照片，文字和图画 组成。
The ten themes radiate out and orbit the time capsule.	这10个主题成辐射状围着时间胶囊旋转。
You can sift through this data and see what people have submitted.	你可以筛选这些数据看看人们都提交了些什么。
This is in response to, What's beautiful? "Miss World."	这个是对"什么东西美丽？"的回答："世界小姐"。
There are two modes to the time capsule.	时间胶囊有两种模式。
There's One World, which presents the spinning globe, and Many Voices, which splits the data out into film strips and lets you sift through them one by one.	一个模式叫"整个世界"，表示成这个旋转的球， 另一个模式叫"大众声音"，把数据分割显示成电影胶片一样， 你可以一个一个地筛选。
So this project was punctuated by a really amazing event, which was held in the desert outside Albuquerque in New Mexico at the Jemez Pueblo, where for three consecutive nights, the contents of the capsule were projected onto the sides of the ancient Red Rock Canyon walls, which stand about 200 feet tall. It was really incredible.	有一个非常令人叹为观止的活动最好地展示了这个项目， 在新墨西哥州阿尔伯克基市外围的沙漠中的 杰梅斯普布洛，连续3个晚上， 时间胶囊的内容被投射到 红岩峡谷的古城墙上， 大概60米高。那真是难以言表的壮观。
And we also projected the contents of the time capsule as binary code using a 35-watt laser into outer space.	我们也把时间胶囊的内容转换成 二进制代码，用35瓦的激光射入太空。
You can see the orange line leaving the desert floor at about a 45 degree angle there. This was amazing because the first night I looked at all this information and really started seeing the gaps that I talked about earlier -- the differences in age, gender and wealth and so on.	你可以看到这些橙色的光线 以大概45度角从沙漠地面发射出去。这真是漂亮， 因为第一个晚上，我看着这所有的信息， 才真正开始"看到"了前面说的差异—— 年龄，性别，财富等等的差异。
But, you know, as I looked at this more and more and more, and saw these images go across the rocks, I realized I was seeing the same archetypal events depicted again and again and again.	但是，你知道吗，当我对着这个东西看了又看， 看着这些图片在岩石上滚动， 我意识到看到的是一遍又一遍的 同样的很典型的事情。
You know: weddings, births, funerals, the first car, the first kiss, the first camel or horse -- depending on the culture.	比如：婚礼，生小孩，送葬，第一辆汽车，初吻， 第一头骆驼或者马——取决于各自的文化。
And it was really moving. And this picture here was taken the final night from a distant cliff about two miles away, where the contents of the capsule were being beamed into space.	那真是感人。这张照片是 从大约两英里远的一个悬崖上在最后一个晚上拍的， 用激光把胶囊的内容射向太空。
And there was something very moving about all of this human expression being shot off into the night sky.	这把所有的人类情绪发射到夜空的感觉 真的是令人激动不已。
And it started to make me think a lot about the night sky, and how humans have always used the night sky to project their great stories.	它使我开始经常思考夜空， 思考人类一直以来怎样用夜空 来演绎他们让人惊叹的故事。
You know, as a child in Vermont, on a farm where I grew up, I would often look up into the dark sky and see the three star belt of Orion, the Hunter.	我是在一个佛蒙特州的农场长大的， 小时候我常常仰望夜空， 看着猎户座腰带的三颗星星。
And as an adult, I've been more aware of the great Greek myths playing out in the sky overhead every night.	成年之后，我对那些希腊神话描述的 天空中每天晚上发生的故事有了更多了解。
You know, Orion facing the roaring bull.	你们知道吗，猎户座在咆哮的公牛座对面，
Perseus flying to the rescue of Andromeda.	珀耳修斯座飞去救援仙女座，
Zeus battling Chronos for control of Mount Olympus.	宙斯与柯罗诺斯争夺对奥林匹斯山的控制。
I mean, these are the great tales of the Greeks.	这些都是希腊人的美好的神话。
And it caused me to wonder about our world today.	它使我思考我们今天的世界，
And it caused me to wonder specifically, if we could make new constellations today, what would those look like? What would those be?	特别是如果我们今天 能做出新的星座， 会是什么样子？会是些什么东西？
If we could make new pictures in the sky, what would we draw?	如果我们可以在天空中画新的图片，我们会画什么？
What are the great stories of today?	现在有些什么好故事？
And those are the questions that inspired my new project, which is debuting here today at TED.	这些问题启发了我的新项目， 今天在TED这里首次亮相，
Nobody's seen this yet, publicly.	至今为止还没有人在公共场合看见过。
It's called Universe: Revealing Our Modern Mythology.	这个项目名字叫作"宇宙"，目的是展示我们现时代的神话，
And it uses this metaphor of an interactive night sky.	它模拟了一个能互动的夜空。
So, it's my great pleasure now to show this to you.	非常高兴现在可以演示给大家看。
So, Universe will open here.	这是宇宙的初始画面，
And you'll see that it leads with a shifting star field, and there's an Aurora Borealis in the background, kind of morphing with color. The color of the Aurora Borealis can be controlled using this single bar of color at the bottom, and we'll put it down here to red.	你可以看到它有一个移动的星盘， 以极光为背景， 颜色变幻。北极光的颜色 可以由底部这个色彩控制条调整， 我们现在把它定为红色。
So you see this kind of -- these stars moving along.	然后你看到这些星星在移动。
Now, these aren't just little points of light, little pixels.	其实，这些星星不只是一些小亮点，小像素。
Each of those stars actually represents a specific event in the real world -- a quote that was stated by somebody, an image, a news story, a person, a company. You know, some kind of heroic personality.	每个星星实际上是 现实世界中的一个具体事件—— 比如某人写的一段话，一个图像， 一个新闻故事，一个人，一个公司，对吧， 有点个人英雄主义的感觉。
And you might notice that as the cursor begins to touch some of these stars, that shapes begin to emerge.	你可能注意到当鼠标 触及到一些星星的时候，会隐隐约约显示出一些形状。
We see here there's a little man walking along, or maybe a woman.	我们这里看到一个男人在走路，也可能是女人。
And we see here a photograph with a head.	在这里看到，一张有一个脑袋的照片。
You can start to see words emerging here.	你开始看到文字在这里浮现。
And those are the constellations of today.	所有这些都是星座， 都是现代的星座。
And I can turn them all on, and you can see them moving across the sky now.	我可以把他们都显示出来， 你就看到它们在天空中移动了。
This is the universe of 2007, the last two months.	这是2007年最后两个月的"宇宙"。
The data from this is global news coverage from thousands of news sources around the world.	这里面的数据来自于全球新闻报道的 世界各地数以千计的新闻来源，
It's using the API of a really great company that I work with in New York, actually, called Daylife.	用和我一起合作的一家真的很不错的纽约公司的 应用程序接口，公司名字叫"天生"。
And it's kind of the zeitgeist view at this level of the world's current mythology over the last couple of months.	它有点像是在过去几个月中 世界发生的现代神话的思潮展示。
So we can see where it's emerging here, like President Ford, Iraq, Bush. And we can actually isolate just the words -- I call them secrets -- and we can cause them to form an alphabetical list. And we see Anna Nicole Smith playing a big role recently.	然后，我们可以看看这里在浮现什么，比如福特总统， 伊拉克，布什。我们也可以单独把文字提取出来—— 我称之为"秘密"——然后把它们 按字母顺序排列。我们看到安娜•妮可史密斯 最近有不少内容。
President Ford -- this is Gerald Ford's funeral.	福特总统——这是吉拉德•福特的葬礼。
We can actually click anything in Universe and have it become the center of the universe, and everything else will enter its orbit.	我们可以在"宇宙"中点击任何东西， 让它成为宇宙的中心， 其他一切都将进入它的环绕轨道。
So, we'll click Ford, and now that becomes the center.	那么，我们点击福特，它就成为中心，
And the things that relate to Ford enter its orbit and swirl around it.	所有涉及到福特的星星都进入到它的轨道 围绕它运转。
We can isolate just the photographs, and we now see those.	我们也可以只提取照片，就像现在看到的。
We can click on one of those and have the photograph be the center of the universe.	我们可以点击这些照片， 让它成为宇宙的中心。
Now the things that relate to it are swirling around.	现在和它相关的事情环绕在它周围。
We can click on this and we see this iconic image of Betty Ford kissing her husband's coffin.	我们按一下这个，就看到这张贝蒂•福特亲吻她丈夫的棺材的 震撼人心的照片。
In Universe, there's kind of no end. It just goes infinitely, and you can just kind of click on stuff.	这个"宇宙"，是没有尽头的。它是无限的， 你基本上只要点击它就可以了。
This is a photographic representation, called Snapshots.	这是一个相片集合，叫作"快照"。
But we can actually be more specific in defining our universe.	但是，我们其实可以更具体地定义我们的宇宙。
So, if we want to, let's check out what Bill Clinton's universe looks like.	比如，如果我们想 看看比尔•克林顿的宇宙是什么模样。
And let's see, in the past week, what he's been up to.	让我们看看在上个礼拜他干了些什么。
So now, we have a new universe, which is just constrained to all things Bill Clinton.	那么，现在我们有了一个新的宇宙， 仅限于所有与比尔•克林顿有关的事情。
We can have his constellations emerge here.	我们可以把他的星座显示在这里，
We can pull out his secrets, and we see that it has a lot to do with candidates, Hillary, presidential, Barack Obama.	提取出他的秘密， 可以发现大部分和总统候选人 希拉里和奥巴马有关。
We can see the stories that Bill Clinton is taking part in right now.	我们可以看到目前克林顿正在参与的 那些报道，
Any of those can be opened up.	所有这些都可以打开。
So we see Obama and the Clintons meet in Alabama.	这样，我们看到奥巴马和克林顿夫妇在阿拉巴马州会面。
You can see that this is an important story; there are a lot of things in its orbit. If we open this up, we get different perspectives on this story.	你知道这是一个重要的事件， 会有很多东西在其轨道上。如果我们打开这个， 我们就能看到这个故事的方方面面的信息。
You can click any of those to go out and read the article at the source. This one's from Al Jazeera.	你可以点击任何这些东西，链接到这些信息的源头 去看原文。这个是从半岛电视台来的。
We can also see the superstars. These would be the people that are kind of the looming heroes and heroines in the universe of Bill Clinton. So there's Bill Clinton, Hillary, Iraq, George Bush, Barack Obama, Scooter Libby -- these are kind of the people of Bill Clinton.	我们还可以看到超级巨星，它们是比尔•克林顿的宇宙中 潜藏着的男女角色（注：就像希腊神话英雄）。 那里有克林顿，希拉里， 伊拉克，乔治•布什，奥巴马，"滑板车"•利比（美国前副总统办公室主任） ——他们可以说成是比尔•克林顿的人际脉络。
We can also see a world map, so this shows us the geographic reach of Bill Clinton in the last week or so.	我们也可以看到一张世界地图，显示克林顿在过去一周 去过一些什么地方。
We can see he's been focused in America because he's been campaigning, probably, but a little bit of action over here in the Middle East.	我们可以发现基本都集中在美国， 可能是因为他一直在搞竞选活动， 但是这里有一些在中东的活动。
And then we can also see a timeline.	我们还可以按照时间排列，
So we see that he was a bit quiet on Saturday, but he was back to work on Sunday morning, and actually been tapering off since then this week.	就可以发现，他在上周六基本没有活动， 但他在上周日上午就开始工作了， 然后这个礼拜的活动慢慢减少了。
And it's not limited to just people or dates, but we can actually put in concepts also.	这个宇宙实际上不局限于人物或者日期， 我们还可以观察某个概念的宇宙。
So if I put in climate change for all of 2006, we'll see what that universe looks like.	比如，如果我输入2006年全年的"全球变暧"， 我们将看到它的宇宙是什么样子。
Here we have our star field. Here we have our shapes.	这里是星图，这里是形状，
Here we have our secrets.	这里是秘密。
So we see again, climate change is large: Nairobi, global conference, environmental.	可以发现，"全球变暧"的宇宙是很大的。 内罗毕，世界会议，环境。
And there are also quotes that you can see, if you're interested in reading about quotes on climate change.	如果你对阅读有关气候变化的文章 有兴趣，这里你还可以看到文章摘录。
You know, this is really an infinite thing.	这确实是一个没有止境的东西，对吧。
The superstars of climate change in 2006: United States, Britain, China. You know, these are the towering countries that kind of define this concept.	2006年气候变化的超级巨星有： 美国，英国，中国。很明显， 这些都是界定这个概念的最重要的国家。
So this is a piece that demands exploration.	所以说，这个项目很有继续探索的潜力。
This will be online in several days, probably next Tuesday.	这个项目将在几天之后在网上公开，有可能是下周二。
And you'll all be able to use it and kind of explore what your own personal mythology might be.	你们都可以用它来探索一下 你个人的神话世界是什么样子。
You'll notice that in Daylife -- rather, in Universe -- it supports both the notion of a global mythology, which is represented by something as broad as, say, 2007, and also a personal mythology.	你会发现在"天生"系统，或者更准确地说，在"宇宙"， 它不仅支持一个全球神话的概念， 比如泛泛的说2007年的宇宙， 也支持个人神话的概念。
As you search for the things that are important to you in your world, and then see what the constellations of those might look like.	当你查找你的小宇宙中重要的东西的时候， 你也可以看到它们的星座是什么样的。
So it's been a pleasure. Thank you very much.	很高兴和大家分享。非常感谢。再次谢谢。
	（大家鼓掌）
I'm here to enlist you in helping reshape the story about how humans and other critters get things done.	今天我来这里号召大家 一起来重构人类及其他生物做事的方式。
Here is the old story -- we've already heard a little bit about it: biology is war in which only the fiercest survive; businesses and nations succeed only by defeating, destroying and dominating competition; politics is about your side winning at all costs.	这里先说说过去的老方式。这个我们已经知道了一些。 生物学是一场战争，只有最凶猛的生物可以生存。 生意场上、国家之间，只有击败、 摧毁对方，占据主导地位才能成功。 政治就是不计代价为自己一方赢得胜利。
But I think we can see the very beginnings of a new story beginning to emerge.	但我觉得我们看得到，一个新故事也渐渐开始上演。
It's a narrative spread across a number of different disciplines, in which cooperation, collective action and complex interdependencies play a more important role.	这是个横跨很多不同领域的故事， 在这中间合作开放、协作行为及复杂的相互依存关系， 扮演着更加重要的角色。
And the central, but not all-important, role of competition and survival of the fittest shrinks just a little bit to make room.	它的中心部分，不再是完全由绝对重要的竞争和适者生存占据 它萎缩了一些，留出了一部分空间。
I started thinking about the relationship between communication, media and collective action when I wrote "Smart Mobs," and I found that when I finished the book, I kept thinking about it.	当我开始写《聪明行动族》这本书时， 我开始思考沟通、媒体和集体行为三者间的关系。 我发现在写完书之后，我还是忍不住不停地去想。
In fact, if you look back, human communication media and the ways in which we organize socially have been co-evolving for quite a long time.	事实上，当你回顾过去，人类沟通媒体 及我们的社会组织方式，都是共同演进了相当长一段时间的。
Humans have lived for much, much longer than the approximately 10,000 years of settled agricultural civilization in small family groups. Nomadic hunters bring down rabbits, gathering food.	人类活在地球上的时间， 比起约一万年的定居农业文明要长得多。 以小家庭为组织的游牧猎人，射杀兔子，采集食物。
The form of wealth in those days was enough food to stay alive.	当时财富的形式是有足够的食物可以生存。
But at some point, they banded together to hunt bigger game.	但在某个阶段这些家庭组织在一起，去捕捉更大的猎物。
And we don't know exactly how they did this, although they must have solved some collective action problems; it only makes sense that you can't hunt mastodons while you're fighting with the other groups.	我们不确定他们当时是如何做到的。 不过他们一定解决了某些集体行动上的问题。 当你猎杀乳齿象时， 不能和其他组织争斗，这样才说的通。
And again, we have no way of knowing, but it's clear that a new form of wealth must have emerged.	不过，我们也无从得知， 但很显然，当时一定有某种新的财富模式产生了。
More protein than a hunter's family could eat before it rotted.	猎人家庭拥有了更多的蛋白质，等不到吃完就腐烂掉了。
So that raised a social question that I believe must have driven new social forms.	这样就产生了一个社会问题， 而我相信这个问题推动了新的社会模式的产生。
Did the people who ate that mastodon meat owe something to the hunters and their families?	那些吃乳齿象肉的人是否欠了 猎人和他们的家庭某些东西呢？
And if so, how did they make arrangements?	如果是这样，他们又是如何达成协议的呢？
Again, we can't know, but we can be pretty sure that some form of symbolic communication must have been involved.	同样的，我们无法得知，但我们可以确信， 其中一定包含某种象征性的沟通。
Of course, with agriculture came the first big civilizations, the first cities built of mud and brick, the first empires.	当然，随着农业的发展，人类第一次迈向文明 出现了第一批泥土和砖块盖起来的城市以及第一个帝国。
And it was the administers of these empires who began hiring people to keep track of the wheat and sheep and wine that was owed and the taxes that was owed on them by making marks; marks on clay in that time.	正是这些帝国的掌权人， 开始雇佣人力，来记录别人欠下的麦子、羊以及葡萄酒。 还有他人欠的税款等。 当时他们通过在粘土上做记号来记录这些。
Not too much longer after that, the alphabet was invented.	在那之后不久，人们就发明了字母表。
And this powerful tool was really reserved, for thousands of years, for the elite administrators who kept track of accounts for the empires.	这个强有力的工具从此被保存了好几千年， 专门给那些帮帝国记账的精英管理者所使用。
And then another communication technology enabled new media: the printing press came along, and within decades, millions of people became literate.	然后，另一个新的沟通科技创造了新的媒体。 印刷厂出现了，在几十年内， 就有数以百万计的人懂得了读写。
And from literate populations, new forms of collective action emerged in the spheres of knowledge, religion and politics.	而这些会读书写字的人们， 在知识、宗教、政治的领域里， 开创了新的集体行动的模式。
We saw scientific revolutions, the Protestant Reformation, constitutional democracies possible where they had not been possible before.	我们看见了科学革命，新教改革， 以及宪政民主等这些以前不可能的事物成为了可能。
Not created by the printing press, but enabled by the collective action that emerges from literacy.	这些不是由印刷媒体创造的， 而是文化所带动的集体行动中造就的。
And again, new forms of wealth emerged.	此外，各种新的财富模式也兴起了。
Now, commerce is ancient. Markets are as old as the crossroads.	现如今开来，经济是古老的，市场跟十字路口一样老。
But capitalism, as we know it, is only a few hundred years old, enabled by cooperative arrangements and technologies, such as the joint-stock ownership company, shared liability insurance, double-entry bookkeeping.	但就如我们所知，资本主义只有短短几百年而已， 它因合作和科技而得以实现， 例如合资股份公司， 共有责任保险及复式记账等。
Now of course, the enabling technologies are based on the Internet, and in the many-to-many era, every desktop is now a printing press, a broadcasting station, a community or a marketplace.	当然，现在的科技都以网络为基础。 在多对多沟通的时代，每个桌面电脑现在都成了印刷厂、 广播电台、社区或者市场。
Evolution is speeding up.	革命还在加速进行。
More recently, that power is untethering and leaping off the desktops, and very, very quickly, we're going to see a significant proportion, if not the majority of the human race, walking around holding, carrying or wearing supercomputers linked at speeds greater than what we consider to be broadband today.	近来，这种革命已经不再围绕台式机打转转了。 很快，我们将会看到一个占显著比例的一部分人，即使不是大多数， 将会拿着、揣着或戴着超级电脑走来走去， 这些电脑互相连接，而其连接速度 会比我们今天所知道的宽频还要快的多。
Now, when I started looking into collective action, the considerable literature on it is based on what sociologists call "social dilemmas."	当我开始研究集体行动时， 那可观的相关文献是基于被社会学家称为"社会困境"之上的。
And there are a couple of mythic narratives of social dilemmas.	关于社会困境有些虚构的描述。
I'm going to talk briefly about two of them: the prisoner's dilemma and the tragedy of the commons.	我将简要地说明其中两项， 即囚犯困境以及共有财产的悲哀。
Now, when I talked about this with Kevin Kelly, he assured me that everybody in this audience pretty much knows the details of the prisoner's dilemma, so I'm just going to go over that very, very quickly.	当我跟凯文·凯利聊起这些事时， 他向我保证在座的每位大概都知道 囚犯困境是怎么回事。 所以，我将很快速地重复一下。
If you have more questions about it, ask Kevin Kelly later.	如果你有更多的疑问，可以去问凯文·凯利，不过要等下。
The prisoner's dilemma is actually a story that's overlaid on a mathematical matrix that came out of the game theory in the early years of thinking about nuclear war: two players who couldn't trust each other.	囚犯困境实际上是一个 叠加在数学矩阵之上的故事， 这个故事来源于早期对于核战争思考的游戏理论： 两个玩家无法信任彼此。
Let me just say that every unsecured transaction is a good example of a prisoner's dilemma.	我们可以说，每个无担保的交易， 都是囚犯困境的好例子。
Person with the goods, person with the money, because they can't trust each other, are not going to exchange.	有商品的人和有钱的人， 因为无法信任彼此而无法进行交易。
Neither one wants to be the first one or they're going to get the sucker's payoff, but both lose, of course, because they don't get what they want.	没有人想迈出第一步， 因为这样他们就会吃亏。 当然，他们都会输，因为他们都得不到想要的东西，
If they could only agree, if they could only turn a prisoner's dilemma into a different payoff matrix called an assurance game, they could proceed.	只有当他们同意将囚犯困境 变成信任赛局的报酬矩阵时，他们才能进行下一步。
Twenty years ago, Robert Axelrod used the prisoner's dilemma as a probe of the biological question: if we are here because our ancestors were such fierce competitors, how does cooperation exist at all?	二十年前，罗伯特阿克塞罗德利用囚犯困境， 进行对生物问题的探索。 如果我们活在此地是因为我们的祖先都是强悍的竞争者， 那么合作又怎么可能存在呢？
He started a computer tournament for people to submit prisoner's dilemma strategies and discovered, much to his surprise, that a very, very simple strategy won -- it won the first tournament, and even after everyone knew it won, it won the second tournament -- that's known as tit for tat.	阿克塞罗德开始了一个电脑竞赛 让人们针对囚犯困境，提交各自策略， 然后他意外的发现，其中最最简单的策略竟然赢了。 这个策略赢了第一场比赛，甚至在大家都知道这件事之后， 还赢了第二场竞赛。这个策略就是以牙还牙。
Another economic game that may not be as well known as the prisoner's dilemma is the ultimatum game, and it's also a very interesting probe of our assumptions about the way people make economic transactions.	另一个经济游戏可能不像囚犯困境那样广为人知， 这就是最后通牒游戏 这也是个关于人们 如何进行经济交易的有趣探索。
Here's how the game is played: there are two players; they've never played the game before, they will not play the game again, they don't know each other, and they are, in fact, in separate rooms.	游戏是这样玩的。 有两个玩家， 双方都不没有玩过这游戏， 他们也不会再玩这个游戏。他们知道彼此是谁。 实际上，他们在不同的房间里。
First player is offered a hundred dollars and is asked to propose a split: 50/50, 90/10, whatever that player wants to propose. The second player either accepts the split -- both players are paid and the game is over -- or rejects the split -- neither player is paid and the game is over.	给第一个玩家一百美元， 然后要求他做出分配：50/50，90/10。 随意怎么做都行。第二个玩家可以接受第一个玩家所提出的分配， 然后双方都获得金钱，游戏结束。 第二个玩家也可以拒绝这个分配，双方都拿不到钱，然后游戏结束。
Now, the fundamental basis of neoclassical economics would tell you it's irrational to reject a dollar because someone you don't know in another room is going to get 99.	新古典派经济的基础会告诉你， 拒绝任何一美元都是不明智的， 因为某个陌生人在另一个房间里将得到99美元。
Yet in thousands of trials with American and European and Japanese students, a significant percentage would reject any offer that's not close to 50/50.	可是，在成千上万美国、欧洲以及日本学生的测试中， 有显著的比例的人会拒绝任何少于50/50的分配。
And although they were screened and didn't know about the game and had never played the game before, proposers seemed to innately know this because the average proposal was surprisingly close to 50/50.	尽管玩家被隔离而且从来不知道这个游戏， 而且从前也从没玩过这个游戏， 提议的人似乎天生就知道这个结果， 因为提议的平均值令人意外的接近50/50。
Now, the interesting part comes in more recently when anthropologists began taking this game to other cultures and discovered, to their surprise, that slash-and-burn agriculturalists in the Amazon or nomadic pastoralists in Central Asia or a dozen different cultures -- each had radically different ideas of what is fair.	有趣的部分是最近才知道的， 当人类学者将这些游戏带到其他文化去时， 他们惊讶的发现， 亚马逊的刀耕火种法的农耕民族， 或者是中亚的游牧民族，以及其他许多不同的文化—— 每个人对于公平都有极端不同的看法。
Which suggests that instead of there being an innate sense of fairness, that somehow the basis of our economic transactions can be influenced by our social institutions, whether we know that or not.	由此可见，与其说人类天生有对公平的共同观感， 倒不如说我们的经济交易基础 会被我们的社会制度所影响—— 无论我们是否意识到这点。
The other major narrative of social dilemmas is the tragedy of the commons.	另一个主要的社会困境就是共有财产的悲哀。
Garrett Hardin used it to talk about overpopulation in the late 1960s.	60年代末，加勒特·哈丁利用它来说明人口过剩的问题。
He used the example of a common grazing area in which each person by simply maximizing their own flock led to overgrazing and the depletion of the resource.	他例举某个共用畜牧的土地为例，在那里， 每个人只是简单的将他们畜牧的牛羊增加到最大值， 就会导致过度畜牧，资源耗尽。
He had the rather gloomy conclusion that humans will inevitably despoil any common pool resource in which people cannot be restrained from using it.	他得出了令人沮丧的结论， 人类将无可避免的掠夺任何公有的资源， 因为人们无法克制不去使用它们。
Now, Elinor Ostrom, a political scientist, in 1990 asked the interesting question that any good scientist should ask, which is: is it really true that humans will always despoil commons?	奥斯特姆，政治科学家， 在1990年问了一个任何好的科学家都该问的有趣问题， 那就是，人类是否真的总会破坏公共资源呢？
So she went out and looked at what data she could find.	于是她就想看下能找到什么样的数据。
She looked at thousands of cases of humans sharing watersheds, forestry resources, fisheries, and discovered that yes, in case after case, humans destroyed the commons that they depended on.	她查看了几千个关于人们共用 水源、森林和渔业的个案，然后果然发现，各个案例都显示 人类真的会破坏他们所依赖的公有资源。
But she also found many instances in which people escaped the prisoner's dilemma; in fact, the tragedy of the commons is a multiplayer prisoner's dilemma.	但是，她也发现，在许多情况下，人们逃出了囚犯困境。 事实上，共有财产的悲哀是一个多数玩家的囚犯困境。
And she said that people are only prisoners if they consider themselves to be.	她说，只有当人们觉得自己就是囚犯时，他们才会是囚犯。
They escape by creating institutions for collective action.	人们通过制造集体行动的机制逃离困境。
And she discovered, I think most interestingly, that among those institutions that worked, there were a number of common design principles, and those principles seem to be missing from those institutions that don't work.	我觉得最有趣的， 是她发现在所有可行的机制当中， 有几个通用的设计原则， 而这些原则看起来 在不可行的机制中是没有的。
I'm moving very quickly over a number of disciplines. In biology, the notions of symbiosis, group selection, evolutionary psychology are contested, to be sure.	我将快速的谈谈几个领域。 在生物学中，共生的概念，群组选择， 以及演化心理学颇都是非常具有争议性的。
But there is really no longer any major debate over the fact that cooperative arrangements have moved from a peripheral role to a central role in biology, from the level of the cell to the level of the ecology.	但是，关于生物学中 合作机制已经日渐重要这个事实，再不会有任何大的辩论， 从细胞到整个生态系统都是如此。
And again, our notions of individuals as economic beings have been overturned.	此外，这也颠覆了我们视个人为经济体 的概念。
Rational self-interest is not always the dominating factor.	理性的个人利益，并不总是占优势的因素。
In fact, people will act to punish cheaters, even at a cost to themselves.	实际上，人们会为了惩罚欺骗者而做出行动，哪怕会输掉他们自己的利益。
And most recently, neurophysiological measures have shown that people who punish cheaters in economic games show activity in the reward centers of their brain.	最近，神经生物学的测量显示 在经济游戏中惩罚欺骗者的人 脑部的酬劳中枢处于活跃状态。
Which led one scientist to declare that altruistic punishment may be the glue that holds societies together.	这项发现让某位科学家宣称，利他的惩罚 也许是使社会连接在一起的粘合剂。
Now, I've been talking about how new forms of communication and new media in the past have helped create new economic forms.	我一直说新的沟通模式和新的媒体 在过去如何帮助塑造新的经济模式。
Commerce is ancient. Markets are very old. Capitalism is fairly recent; socialism emerged as a reaction to that.	商业是古老的，市场是历史悠久的，资本主义是近代的。 而社会主义的崛起，则是对资本主义的回应。
And yet we see very little talk about how the next form may be emerging.	但我们很少看到有人讲到下个模式将如何崛起。
Jim Surowiecki briefly mentioned Yochai Benkler's paper about open source, pointing to a new form of production: peer-to-peer production.	詹姆斯·索诺维尔基简要的提到了约柴·本科勒教授关于开放源代码的论文， 论文中提出了一种新的生产模式——点对点的生产。
I simply want you to keep in mind that if in the past, new forms of cooperation enabled by new technologies create new forms of wealth, we may be moving into yet another economic form that is significantly different from previous ones.	我只想要你们记住，如果在过去是新的科技促进了新的合作模式， 继而制造出新的财富形式， 我们也许正向另一个新的经济模式演进， 它与过去的模式相比有着显著的不同。
Very briefly, let's look at some businesses. IBM, as you know, HP, Sun -- some of the most fierce competitors in the IT world are open sourcing their software, are providing portfolios of patents for the commons.	让我们很简要的看看几个企业，你们知道IBM、惠普以及SUN。 在IT产业中，他们最强的竞争者正将软件开源， 为公共经济提供专利的支持。
Eli Lilly -- in, again, the fiercely competitive pharmaceutical world -- has created a market for solutions for pharmaceutical problems.	美国礼来公司在竞争激烈的药品世界里 创造了一个解决药品问题的市场。
Toyota, instead of treating its suppliers as a marketplace, treats them as a network and trains them to produce better, even though they are also training them to produce better for their competitors.	丰田不再象对待市场一样对待供应商， 而是视他们为网络的一环并训练加强他们生产力， 尽管丰田知道这样一来竞争者也将因此获得更好的产品。
Now none of these companies are doing this out of altruism; they're doing it because they're learning that a certain kind of sharing is in their self-interest.	这些公司都不是为了利他主义而行动的。 他们做这些事都是因为 了解到在自我利益中含有某种程度的分享。
Open source production has shown us that world-class software, like Linux and Mozilla, can be created with neither the bureaucratic structure of the firm nor the incentives of the marketplace as we've known them.	开放自由软件的生产让我们看到世界级的软件，像Linux以及Mozilla， 但这些软件不能从公司的官僚结构中生产， 也无法从我们所知的市场诱因中产出。
Google enriches itself by enriching thousands of bloggers through AdSense.	谷歌使用AdSense丰富成千上万的博客，同时使自己富足。
Amazon has opened its Application Programming Interface to 60,000 developers, countless Amazon shops.	亚马逊开放了自己的应用程序接口 给6万名开发者以及无数的亚马逊商店。
They're enriching others, not out of altruism but as a way of enriching themselves.	他们并不是出于利他主义而去做好事，而是当作一种充实自己的手段。
eBay solved the prisoner's dilemma and created a market where none would have existed by creating a feedback mechanism that turns a prisoner's dilemma game into an assurance game.	Ebay解决了囚犯困境， 创造了前所未有的市场。他们创造了一个回馈机制， 将囚犯困境变成了合作博弈。
Instead of, "Neither of us can trust each other, so we have to make suboptimal moves," it's, "You prove to me that you are trustworthy and I will cooperate."	原来是"我们彼此间不信任，所以我们不得不退而求其次"， 现在是"你必须先证明自己是可信任的，然后我才愿意合作"。
Wikipedia has used thousands of volunteers to create a free encyclopedia with a million and a half articles in 200 languages in just a couple of years.	维基百科利用上万名志愿者来创造一个免费的百科全书， 在短短两年内就以200种语言完成了150万篇文章。
We've seen that ThinkCycle has enabled NGOs in developing countries to put up problems to be solved by design students around the world, including something that's being used for tsunami relief right now: it's a mechanism for rehydrating cholera victims that's so simple to use it, illiterates can be trained to use it.	我们看到ThinkCycle让发展中国家的非政府组织 提出问题，由世界各地设计学科的学生来帮忙解决。 这包括现在海啸救援中所使用的东西。 这是用来为霍乱病患者 补充水分的简单装置，非常容易用，即使是不识字的人 也可以通过培训很快掌握使用。
BitTorrent turns every downloader into an uploader, making the system more efficient the more it is used.	BitTorrent将每个下载者变成上传者， 这让系统变得使用越多就越有效率。
Millions of people have contributed their desktop computers when they're not using them to link together through the Internet into supercomputing collectives that help solve the protein folding problem for medical researchers -- that's Folding@home at Stanford -- to crack codes, to search for life in outer space.	千百万人自愿贡献出他们的桌面电脑， 在自己不使用的时候，一起连接到网络 变成超级电脑集体的一份子。 比如用来协助医学研究员解决蛋白质褶皱的问题， 这是在丹佛大学的Folding@Home。 或者破解密码。或是在外太空寻找生命迹象。
I don't think we know enough yet.	我认为我们知道的还远远不够。
I don't think we've even begun to discover what the basic principles are, but I think we can begin to think about them.	我们甚至连最基本的原理是什么都还没有搞清楚。 但是我觉得我们可以开始思考这些问题。
And I don't have enough time to talk about all of them, but think about self-interest.	而我没有足够的时间可以讲述所有东西。 但是想想利己主义吧。
This is all about self-interest that adds up to more.	这全是自我利益最大化的例子。
In El Salvador, both sides that withdrew from their civil war took moves that had been proven to mirror a prisoner's dilemma strategy.	在萨尔外多的内战中，撤退的两方 所采取的行动，验证了囚犯困境的脱困策略。
In the U.S., in the Philippines, in Kenya, around the world, citizens have self-organized political protests and get out the vote campaigns using mobile devices and SMS.	在美国，菲律宾，肯尼亚以及世界各地， 公民利用手机和短信 自己组织政治游行以及投票活动。
Is an Apollo Project of cooperation possible?	一个类似阿波罗登月计划的合作是否可能呢？
A transdisciplinary study of cooperation?	跨学科的研究合作是否可能呢？
I believe that the payoff would be very big.	我相信合作带来的活力会非常大。
I think we need to begin developing maps of this territory so that we can talk about it across disciplines.	我想我们需要开始为这新领地绘制地图， 这样我们可以跨领域进行讨论。
And I am not saying that understanding cooperation is going to cause us to be better people -- and sometimes people cooperate to do bad things -- but I will remind you that a few hundred years ago, people saw their loved ones die from diseases they thought were caused by sin or foreigners or evil spirits.	我并不是说了解了合作 会使我们变成更好的人。 有时候人们会一起合作做坏事。 但是你要知道，在几百年前， 人们看见自己亲爱的人死于疾病时， 认为那是由罪恶、外国人或者恶魔造成的。
Descartes said we need an entire new way of thinking.	笛卡尔说我们应该有一个全新的思考方式。
When the scientific method provided that new way of thinking and biology showed that microorganisms caused disease, suffering was alleviated.	当科学带来了那个新的思考方式， 当生物学查出微生物是造成疾病的原因， 病人的痛苦减轻了。
What forms of suffering could be alleviated, what forms of wealth could be created if we knew a little bit more about cooperation?	什么样的痛苦可以得到减缓呢？ 如果我们对合作了解的更多， 什么样的财富可以被创造呢？
I don't think that this transdisciplinary discourse is automatically going to happen; it's going to require effort.	我不认为这跨学科的对话 将会自动发生。 这将会需要努力。
So I enlist you to help me get the cooperation project started.	因此，我在此号召大家来帮助我一起启动这个合作计划。
Thank you.	谢谢！
Good afternoon. I am proud to be here at TEDxKrakow.	下午好。能来到TEDxKrakow（克拉科夫，波兰城市）我非常骄傲。
I'll try to speak a little bit today about a phenomenon which can and is actually changing the world, and whose name is people power.	今天我要说一说 一个有能力并且正在改变世界的现象， 这个现象就是人民的力量。
I'll start with the anecdote, or for those of you who are Monty Python lovers, a Monty Python type of sketch.	让我先来与你们分享一段轶事， 如果你们喜欢猛踢蒙提·派森（英国喜剧团体）的话，这就是一个蒙提·派森式的小品。
Here it is. It is December 15, 2010.	故事是这样的。2010年12月15日。
Somebody gives you a bet. You will look at a crystal ball and you will see the future. The future will be accurate.	有人和你打赌。赌约是，你可以从水晶球里 准确地看到未来。
But you need to share it with the world. Okay?	但是你必须把你所看到的公之于众。你愿意吗？
Curiosity killed the cat. You take the bet.	好奇心杀死猫。你接受挑战
You look at the crystal ball. One hour later, you are sitting in a building on the national TV in a talkshow, and you tell the story.	看了水晶球。一个小时之后 你在全国性的电视台的大楼里 做脱口秀节目，讲述你在水晶球里看到的事情。
"Before the end of 2011, Ben Ali and Mubarak and Gaddafi will be down and prosecuted.	"2011年结束之前，本·阿里、穆巴拉克 和卡扎菲都会垮台并被起诉。
Saleh of Yemen and Assad of Syria would be either challenged or already on their knees.	也门的萨利赫和叙利亚的阿萨德 会受到挑战甚至屈服于压力。
Osama bin Laden will be dead, and Ratko Mladic will be in the Hague."	奥萨马·本·拉登会死去， 拉科˙穆拉迪契会在海牙国际法庭受审。"
Now, the anchor watches you with a strange gaze on his face, and then on the top of it you add, "And thousands of the young people from Athens, Madrid and New York will demonstrate for social justice, claiming that they are inspired with Arabs."	现在，主持人用一种奇怪的眼神凝视着你， 然后你又补充道， "在雅典、马德里和纽约，成千上万的年轻人 会走上街头，声称自己受阿拉伯世界影响， 要为社会公正示威。"
Next thing you know, two guys in white appear.	接下来，两个身着白衣的人出现。
They give you the strange t-shirt, take you to the nearest mental institution.	给你一件古怪的T恤， 把你送到最近的精神病院。
So I would like to speak a little bit about the phenomenon which is behind what already seems to be the very bad year for bad guys, and this phenomenon is called people power.	所以我想谈一谈这一年 恶霸不断倒台背后的现象 这个现象就是人民的力量。
Well, people power has been there for a while.	人民的力量并不是什么新生现象。
It helped Gandhi kick the Brits from India.	它帮助甘地把英国人赶出印度。
It helped Martin Luther King win a historic racial struggle.	它帮助马丁·路德·金赢得了一场历史性的种族斗争。
It helped local Lech Walesa to kick out one million Soviet troops from Poland and beginning the end of the Soviet Union as we know it.	它帮助波兰的莱赫·瓦文萨 将一百万苏联军队赶出波兰 启动了苏联的解体。
So what's new in it? What seems to be very new, which is the idea I would like to share with you today, that there is a set of rules and skills which can be learned and taught in order to perform successful nonviolent struggle.	现在的人民力量新在何处呢？ 我今天就想谈一谈这个问题 要进行成功的非暴力斗争 我们需要一系列可学习可传授的规则和技能。
If this is true, we can help these movements.	如果事实如此，我们可以协助此类运动的开展。
Well, first one, analytic skills.	第一，分析能力。
I'll try where it all started in the Middle East, and for so many years we were living with completely the wrong perception of the Middle East.	请让我从这一切的源头中东地区说起 多年来，我们对中东地区的印象 一直有失偏颇。
It was looking like the frozen region, literally a refrigerator, and there are only two types of meals there: steak, which stands for a Mubarak, Ben Ali-type of military police dictatorship, or a potato, which stands for Tehran types of theocracies.	我们认为中东好像一个被冷冻的区域，一个冰箱 而且里面只有两种食物： 一种是牛排，代表穆巴拉克、本·阿里这种 军事独裁统治，另外一种是土豆， 也就是以伊朗德黑兰政权为代表的神权政体。
And everybody was amazed when the refrigerator opened and millions of young, mainly secular people step out to do the change. Guess what? They didn't watch the demographics.	因此当冰箱打开，成千上万的年轻人， 其中大部分拥有着平凡的价值观，走上街头呼吁变革的时候 很多人非常惊讶。知道为什么吗？他们没有关注中东的人口统计特征。
What is the average age of Egyptians? 24.	埃及的平均年龄是多少？24岁。
How long was Mubarak in power? 31.	穆巴拉克在位多少年了？31年。
So this system: just obsolete. They expired, and young people of the Arab World have awakened one morning and understood that power lies in their hands.	所以这样的统治系统已经过时。应该退休了。 而阿拉伯世界的年轻人某一天早上醒来 突然意识到力量就在自己手中。
The rest is the year in front of us. And guess what?	此后一年间发生的事情我们已经熟知。
The same Generation Epsilon with their rules, with their tools, with their games and with their language, which sounds a little bit strange to me. I am 38 now.	这一代人有着自己规则 自己的工具，自己的游戏和自己的语言 这种语言对我来说有些奇怪。我今年38岁了。
And can you look at the age of the people on the streets of Europe?	再看看欧洲街头示威人群的年龄组成？
It seems that Generation Epsilon is coming.	年轻一代正在走上政治舞台。
Now let me set another example.	现在请允许我再举一个例子。
I'm meeting different people throughout the world, and they are, you know, academics and professors and doctors, and they will always talk conditions.	我与来自世界各地的很多人讨论过这个话题 学者、教授、医生都有 他们都喜欢讲条件。
They will say, "People power will work only if the regime is not too oppressive."	他们会说，"只有政权对于人民的压迫过于深重的时候，人民的力量才会起作用。"
They will say, "People power will work if the annual income of the country is between X and Z."	他们还说："如果该国年人均收入在X和Z之间 人民的力量才会起作用。"
They will say, "People power will work only if there is a foreign pressure."	他们说："只有外国施加压力时，人民的力量才会起效。"
They will say, "People power will work only if there is no oil."	他们说，"只有在不牵涉的石油的情况下人民的力量才会起效"
And, I mean, there is a set of conditions.	这些条件确实存在。
Well, the news here is that your skills [that you] bring in the conflict seem to be more important than the conditions, namely skills of unity, planning, and maintaining nonviolent discipline.	然而，真正的重点是，应对冲突的技能 似乎比这些条件更加重要， 它们分别是团结、规划 和坚持和非暴力斗争。
Let me give you the example.	请允许我再举一个例子。
I am coming from a country called Serbia.	我来自塞尔维亚。
It took us 10 years to unite 18 opposition party leaders, with their big egos, behind one single candidate against Balkan dictator Slobodan Milosevic.	我们花了10年的时间才联合18个自恃甚高的反对党领袖 选出一个候选人 对抗巴尔干独裁者斯洛博丹·米洛舍维奇。
Guess what? That was the day of his defeat.	你猜结果怎样？他的末日就此到来。
You look at the Egyptians, they fire on Tahrir Square, they get rid of their individual symbols.	再看埃及人，他们在解放广场上示威时 去除了所有个人符号。
They appear on the street only with the flag of Egypt.	他们走上街头时只带着埃及国旗。
I will give you a counter-example.	请允许我再举一个反例。
You see nine presidential candidates running against Lukashenko.	有9个候选人和卢卡申科竞争总总统职位。
You will know the outcome.	结果不言而喻。
So unity is a big thing, and this can be achieved.	因此，团结非常重要，而且也不难做到。
Same with planning. Somebody has lied to you about the successful and spontaneous nonviolent revolution?	事先计划也是一样。有人跟你提到过 成功的自发非暴力革命？
That thing doesn't exist in the world.	世界上不存在这种革命。
Whenever you see young people in front of the road trying to fraternize with the police or military, somebody was thinking about it before.	如果你看到年轻人在接上 态度友好的和警察或者军队交涉， 肯定有人实现计划。
Now, at the end, nonviolent discipline, and this is probably the game-changer.	最后我要谈一谈不使用暴力的重要性， 这在一场运动中可能会起到决定性的作用。
If you maintain nonviolent discipline, you will exclusively win.	如果坚持非暴力斗争，你就会取得胜利。
You have 100,000 people in a nonviolent march, and one idiot or agent provocateur is throwing stones, guess what takes all the cameras? That one guy.	如果十万人参加了非暴力游行， 如果其中一个白痴或者奸细扔了石头 媒体的镜头全都会对准这一个人。
One single act of violence can literally destroy your movement.	一个暴力行为就可以 毁掉整个运动。
Now let me move to another place.	现在我们看下一个问题。
It's selection of strategies and tactics.	战略和战术的甄选。
There are certain rules in nonviolent struggle you may follow.	在非暴力斗争中遵守一些规则是必要的。
First, you start small.	第一，从小规模的运动开始。
Second, you pick the battles you can win.	第二，将精力集中在可能赢的活动上。
It's only 200 of us in this room.	今天出席的观众大约两百人。
We won't call for the March of Millions.	我们没办法组织百万人大游行。
But what if we organize spraying graffiti throughout the night all over Krakow city? The city will know.	如果我们趁夜晚在克拉科夫 四处涂鸦呢？市民们一定会知道的。
So we pick the tactics which accommodates to the event, especially this thing we call the small tactics of dispersion.	因此，我们根据形势挑选策略 尤其是运用分散的小规模策略。
They're very useful in a violent oppression.	这种策略在暴力镇压中特别有效。
We are actually witnessing the picture of one of the best tactics ever used.	这张照片记录的就是 有史以来最棒的策略之一。
It was on Tahrir Square, where the international community was constantly frightened that the Islamists will overtake the revolution. Well, they've organized Christians protecting Muslims, who are there praying, Coptic wedding cheered by thousands of Muslims.	这是在解放广场，国际社会 一直担心伊斯兰教徒会在这里 改变革命的性质。于是，他们安排了 基督教徒保护正在祈祷的穆斯林 以及受到成千上万穆斯林祝福的科普特人婚礼。
The world has just changed the picture, but somebody was thinking about this previously.	他们改变了世界的想法， 这一切都是事前计划的。
So there are so many things you can do instead of getting into one place, shouting and showing off in front of the security forces.	除了聚集在一起， 在安保人员面前大叫示威之外， 还有很多其他的斗争方式。
Now there is also another very important dynamic, and this is a dynamic normally analytics don't see.	事实上还有一种动态制衡也非常重要 而且常被分析家忽略。
This is dynamics between fear and apathy on one side and enthusiasm and humor on another side.	这是以热情和幽默 化解恐惧和冷漠的动态。
So it works like in a video game.	它的运作方式很像电子游戏。
You have a fear high, you have status quo.	如果恐惧指数较高，那其它状态保持不变。
You have enthusiasm higher, you see fear starting to melt.	如果热情指数升高，恐惧就会开始下降。
Day two, you see people running towards police instead of from the police.	在第二天，你就会看到人们跑向警察， 而不是从警察身边逃离。
In Egypt, you can tell that something is happening there.	不难看出，埃及就发生了类似的变化。
And then it's about humor. Humor is such a powerful game-changer, and of course it was very big in Poland.	接下来我们说说幽默。幽默拥有巨大的力量 可以改变局势，而且波兰人民的幽默感一向不错。
And you know, we were just a small group of crazy students in Serbia when we made this big skit.	在塞尔维亚，我们一小群疯狂的学生 曾经组织过大型的滑稽活动。
We put the big petrol barrel with a portrait picture of Mr. President on it in the middle of the Main Street. There was a hole on the top so you could literally come, put a coin in, get a baseball bat, and pow, hit his face.	我们在主干道的中间 放上一个大汽油桶 上面贴着总统先生的照片。桶的顶端有一个洞 所以人们可以过来投币 拿起棒球棍，给总统的脸来上一棒。
Sounds loud. And within the minutes, we were sitting in a nearby cafe having coffee, and there was a queue of people waiting to do this lovely thing.	声音非常响。我们坐在附近的咖啡馆喝咖啡 观察形势发展，几分钟之内， 就有一群人排队投币打总统。
Well, that's just the beginning of the show.	好戏这时才刚刚开始。
The real show starts when the police appears.	警察的出现掀起了真正的高潮。
What will they do? Arrest us? We are nowhere to be seen.	他们会怎么做呢？逮捕我们？他们根本找不到我们。
We are three blocks away observing it from our espresso bar.	我们在三个街区之外的咖啡馆静观其变呢。
Arrest the shoppers with kids? Doesn't make sense.	逮捕那些带着孩子的购物者？没有道理。
Of course, you could bet they have done the most stupid thing: They arrested the barrel. And now the picture of the smashed face on the barrel with the policeman dragging them to the police car, that was the best day for the photographers from newspapers that they ever will have.	也许你们猜得到，最终他们还是做了最愚蠢的事情： 他们逮捕了那个汽油桶。 警察将被打的歪七扭八的总统头像汽油桶 拖向警车的画面 让报纸摄影记者们欣喜若狂。
So, I mean, these are the things you can do, and you can always use the humor.	因此，我们都可以做一些力所能及的事， 而且别忘记将幽默融入其中。
There is also one big thing about the humor: It really hurts, because these guys really are taking themselves too seriously.	幽默的力量在于：独裁者们 太在意他们的形象了，幽默其实拥有着巨大的杀伤力。
When you start to mock them, it hurts.	那些统治者一旦被嘲讽，就会坐立不安。
Now, everybody is talking about His Majesty, the Internet, and it is also a very useful skill, but don't rush to label things like Facebook Revolution, Twitter Revolution.	现在，人们都在谈论尊贵的因特网殿下， 网络也确实是一个非常有用的工具 但是别急着将各种运动命名为脸书革命或者推特革命。
Don't mix tools with the substance.	不要混淆工具和实质。
It is true that the Internet and new media are very useful in making things faster and cheaper.	在提高效率和降低成本方面 网络和新媒体非常有效。
They make it also a bit safer for the participants because they give the part of anonymity.	网络的匿名性则 提高了参加反抗运动的安全性。
We are watching the great example of something else the Internet can do.	我们现在看到的是，是因特网在另外一个方面做出的伟大贡献。
It can put the price tag of state-sponsored violence over nonviolent protesters.	它可以让暴力镇压和平示威的政府付出代价。
This is a famous group, We are all Khaled Said, made by Wael Ghonim in Egypt and his friend.	这是Wael Ghonim和他的朋友在埃及 创建的一个著名组织，"我们都是Khaled Said"。
This is the mutilated face of the guy who was beaten by the police.	这是一个被警察殴打的年轻人受伤的面孔。
This is how he became the public, and this is what probably became the straw which broke the camel's back.	他成为了公众的代表，可能就是 压垮骆驼的最后一根稻草。
But here is also the bad news.	然而因特网也有它的局限。
The nonviolent struggle is won in the real world, in the streets. You will never change your society towards democracy or economics if you sit down and click.	和平示威只有在真实世界， 在街头才能取得胜利。如果只坐在电脑面前点击鼠标的话 你永远也无法 改善社会、推进民主。
There are risks to be taken and there are living people who are winning the struggle.	必须冒险，必须有活生生的人参加 斗争才有可能取得胜利。
Well, million dollar question: What will happen in the Arab World?	再说一个重要的问题：阿拉伯世界今后会如何发展？
And though young people from the Arab World were pretty successful in bringing down three dictators, shaking the region, kind of persuading clever kings from Jordan and Morocco doing substantial reforms, it is yet to be seen what will be the outcome, whether the Egyptians and Tunisians will make it through the transition or this will end in bloody ethnic and religious conflict, whether the Syrians will maintain nonviolent discipline, faced with the brutal daily violence which kills thousands already, or they will slip into violent struggle and make ugly civil war.	阿拉伯世界的年轻人 成功的扳倒了三个独裁者， 振荡了整个世界的格局，一定程度上说服了 约旦和摩洛哥聪明的国王大举改革， 但最终的结果还尚未揭晓， 埃及和突尼斯能否成功过渡 会不会有血腥的种族或者宗教冲突爆发 面对日渐残暴、已经造成上千人死亡 的暴力镇压，叙利亚人民 能否坚持不动用武力 还是说他们会陷入武装斗争 引起一场惨烈的内战。
Will these revolutions be whole like through the transitions to democracy or be overtaken by military or extremists of all kinds? We cannot tell.	这些革命是否能引领国家向民主过渡 它们的胜利果实会不会被军方 或者各种极端分子攫取？我们无法预测。
Same works for the Western sector, where you can see all of these excited young people protesting around the world, occupying this, occupying that.	发生在西方社会的抗议也是如此 有很多激愤的年轻人四处抗议 一会儿占领这个，一会儿占领那个。
Are they going to become the world wave?	他们会引领世界的潮流吗？
Are they going to find their skills, their enthusiasm, and their strategy to find what they really want and push for the reform, or will they just stay complaining about the endless list of the things they hate?	他们是会用自己的能力、热情和策略 去追寻理想，推动改革 还是会继续 抱怨他们憎恨的无数现象？
This is the difference between two towns.	这两者有云泥之别。
Now, what [do] the statistics have?	数据显示出什么样的发展趋势呢？
My friend's book, Maria Stephan's book, talks a lot about violent and nonviolent struggle, and there are some shocking data.	我的朋友Maria Stephan的书 探讨了与暴力和非暴力斗争有关的大量问题 也包含着一些惊人的数据。
If you look at the last 35 years and different social transitions from dictatorship to democracy, you will see that out of 67 different cases, in 50 of these cases it was nonviolent struggle which was the key power.	过去35年中 在不同的国家一共发生了67次 从独裁到民主的社会变革 其中有50次是通过非暴力斗争实现的 因此，非暴力斗争能起到非常关键的作用。
This is one more reason to look at this phenomenon.	从这个角度来看，当今世界正在发生的事情值得关注。
This is one more reason to look at the Generation Epsilon, enough for me to give them credit and hope that they will find their skills and their courage to use the nonviolent struggle and thus fix at least a part of the mess our generation is making in this world.	从这个角度来看，年轻一代值得关注， 我相信他们有希望 用自己的能力和勇气 通过非暴力斗争 解决一部分 我们这代人给世界带来的问题。
Thank you.	谢谢。
Can I say how delighted I am to be away from the calm of Westminster and Whitehall?	能暂时逃离英国国会与政府大楼的平淡无奇 我的喜悦之情真的是难以言表。
This is Kim, a nine-year-old Vietnam girl, her back ruined by napalm, and she awakened the conscience of the nation of America to begin to end the Vietnam War.	这是金菊，一名九岁的越南女孩。 她那被汽油弹烧毁的后背 唤醒了美国人民的良知， 越战也因此而迈向终结。
This is Birhan, who was the Ethiopian girl who launched Live Aid in the 1980s, 15 minutes away from death when she was rescued, and that picture of her being rescued is one that went round the world.	这是比尔汗，在80年代发起了 "Live Aid"的埃塞俄比亚女童。 在她获救的时候，死亡距离她只有15分钟， 而她得救的照片也因此被传遍全球。
This is Tiananmen Square.	这是天安门广场。
A man before a tank became a picture that became a symbol for the whole world of resistance.	坦克前的男人成了一幅照片， 一个全世界反抗的象征。
This next is the Sudanese girl, a few moments from death, a vulture hovering in the background, a picture that went round the world and shocked people into action on poverty.	接下来的这位是个苏丹女童， 死神与她近在咫尺， 秃鹫在不远处徘徊。 一张传遍世界的照片 震惊了人类，共同加入抗击贫困的实际行动中。
This is Neda, the Iranian girl who was shot while at a demonstration with her father in Iran only a few weeks ago, and she is now the focus, rightly so, of the YouTube generation.	这是妮达，几个星期前 在与她父亲示威时，不幸被射杀的伊朗女孩。 而她成为当下YouTube一代的焦点人物 也是不无理由。
And what do all these pictures and events have in common?	这些照片与事件的共同之处在哪里呢？
What they have in common is what we see unlocks what we cannot see.	它们的共同之处就在于我们所看到 开启了我们所看不到的。
What we see unlocks the invisible ties and bonds of sympathy that bring us together to become a human community.	我们所看到的开启了人与人之间无形的纽带， 我们的怜悯之心将我们聚集到一起， 组成一个人类大家庭。
What these pictures demonstrate is that we do feel the pain of others, however distantly.	这些照片证实了 无论距离的远近 我们都可以感受到他人的痛楚。
What I think these pictures demonstrate is that we do believe in something bigger than ourselves.	这些照片证实了 我们确实坚信比我们自身价值更崇高的事业。
What these pictures demonstrate is that there is a moral sense across all religions, across all faiths, across all continents -- a moral sense that not only do we share the pain of others, and believe in something bigger than ourselves but we have a duty to act when we see things that are wrong that need righted, see injuries that need to be corrected, see problems that need to be rectified.	这些照片证实了 我们拥有着一个跨越宗教，跨越信仰， 跨越洲际的道德观—— 不仅仅让我们感受他人的痛楚 追求崇高的事业， 更让我们意识到我们有义务行动起来， 去纠正过错、 化解伤痛、 解决问题。
There is a story about Olof Palme, the Swedish Prime Minister, going to see Ronald Reagan in America in the 1980s.	话说80年代的时候，瑞典前首相奥洛夫·帕尔梅 曾想去美国拜访罗纳德·里根。
Before he arrived Ronald Reagan said -- and he was the Swedish Social Democratic Prime Minister -- "Isn't this man a communist?"	虽然说他当时是瑞典的社会民主党首相， 不过在他到访之前，里根还是问道： "这个人是共产主义者吗？"
The reply was, "No, Mr President, he's an anti-communist."	旁边的人回答道："不，总统先生，他是一名反共产主义者。"
And Ronald Reagan said, "I don't care what kind of communist he is!"	结果里根说道："我不管他是哪种共产主义者！"
Ronald Reagan asked Olof Palme, the Social Democratic Prime Minister of Sweden, "Well, what do you believe in? Do you want to abolish the rich?"	里根曾经问过帕尔梅， 当时瑞典的社会民主党首相 "你的信条是什么？你打算铲除富人吗？"
He said, "No, I want to abolish the poor."	帕尔梅回答道："不，我想铲除穷人。"
Our responsibility is to let everyone have the chance to realize their potential to the full.	我们的职责是让每个人 都有实现自身潜能的机会。
I believe there is a moral sense and a global ethic that commands attention from people of every religion and every faith, and people of no faith.	我坚信有一种世界共通的道德伦理观， 值得引起人类的高度重视， 不管是何种宗教，不管是有无信仰。
But I think what's new is that we now have the capacity to communicate instantaneously across frontiers right across the world.	但我觉得与以往不同的是 我们现在拥有了跨越边界 与世界交流的能力。
We now have the capacity to find common ground with people who we will never meet, but who we will meet through the Internet and through all the modern means of communication; that we now have the capacity to organize and take collective action together to deal with the problem or an injustice that we want to deal with; and I believe that this makes this a unique age in human history, and it is the start of what I would call the creation of a truly global society.	我们现在拥有了 通过互联网和各种现代通信手段 来结识无法在现实生活中见面的 志同道合的人士。 我们现在拥有了 集体组织、联合行动 共同解决问题、 处理不公正行为的能力。 正因为如此，我坚信我们正处在一个 独特的历史时刻， 开创着一个真正全球化的社会。
Go back 200 years when the slave trade was under pressure from William Wilberforce and all the protesters.	200年前，贩奴贸易面临着 来自威廉·威伯福斯和反对者的压力。
They protested across Britain.	各种反抗运动席卷英国。
They won public opinion over a long period of time.	在很长的一段时间里，这些反对者都拥有着民众的支持，
But it took 24 years for the campaign to be successful.	但整场运动却是花费了24年的时间才取得最终的胜利。
What could they have done with the pictures that they could have shown if they were able to use the modern means of communication to win people's hearts and minds?	设想一下，如果当初他们拥有现代的通讯技术 来传播照片、赢取民心， 他们又将取得怎样的成就呢？
Or if you take Eglantyne Jebb, the woman who created Save the Children 90 years ago.	再来看看埃格兰泰恩·杰布女士， 90年前她创建了救助儿童会。
She was so appalled by what was happening in Austria as a result of the First World War and what was happening to children who were part of the defeated families of Austria, that in Britain she wanted to take action, but she had to go house to house, leaflet to leaflet, to get people to attend a rally in the Royal Albert Hall that eventually gave birth to Save the Children, an international organization that is now fully recognized as one of the great institutions in our land and in the world.	一战后的奥地利 和战败家庭中儿童的悲惨经历 深深地惊骇了她， 让她决定在英国行动起来。 但她不得不挨家挨户散发传单， 促使群众参加 在皇家艾伯特大厅举行的集会， 救助儿童会也因此而诞生， 并成为我们国家，乃至整个世界 最伟大的国际组织之一。
But what more could she have done if she'd had the modern means of communications available to her to create a sense that the injustice that people saw had to be acted upon immediately?	但设想一下， 如果她当初拥有现代的通讯技术， 让人们意识到他们所目睹的不公行径急需解决的话， 她所能做的恐怕不仅仅是这些吧？
Now look at what's happened in the last 10 years.	让我们再来看看过去十年所发生的事情。
In Philippines in 2001, President Estrada -- a million people texted each other about the corruption of that regime, eventually brought it down and it was, of course, called the "coup de text."	2001年的菲律宾，总统埃斯特拉达—— 当时的百万民众互传简讯，告发当下政体的腐败罪行， 促使其引咎辞职，引发了所谓的"短信政变"。
Then you have in Zimbabwe the first election under Robert Mugabe a year ago.	还有一年前的津巴布韦，在总统罗伯特·穆加贝统治下的首次大选。
Because people were able to take mobile phone photographs of what was happening at the polling stations, it was impossible for that Premier to fix that election in the way that he wanted to do.	正是因为人们可以利用手机拍照， 来记录在投票站所发生的一切， 才使得穆加贝无法按计划地对选举结果进行暗箱操作。
Or take Burma and the monks that were blogging out, a country that nobody knew anything about that was happening, until these blogs told the world that there was a repression, meaning that lives were being lost and people were being persecuted and Aung San Suu Kyi, who is one of the great prisoners of conscience of the world, had to be listened to.	还有缅甸和那些通过博客与外界交流的僧侣们。 人们之前对这个国家一无所知， 直到这些博客揭露了发生在那里的镇压， 遇难的生命， 遭迫害的群众， 才使得昂山素季，全世界最伟大的政治囚犯之一， 终于有了倾诉的权利。
Then take Iran itself, and what people are doing today: following what happened to Neda, people who are preventing the security services of Iran finding those people who are blogging out of Iran, any by everybody who is blogging, changing their address to Tehran, Iran, and making it difficult for the security services.	再来看看伊朗， 还有人们在妮达遇难后所做的一切。 国家安全保卫部门的人士发现 那些通过博客与外界交流的伊朗人 把他们的地址通通改成了伊朗德黑兰， 让安全部的官员难以追查。
Take, therefore, what modern technology is capable of: the power of our moral sense allied to the power of communications and our ability to organize internationally.	这些都体现了现代科技的本领所在—— 我们的道德力量与通讯技能相结合， 再加上在国际范围内组织活动的能力。
That, in my view, gives us the first opportunity as a community to fundamentally change the world.	这一切，在我看来，给了我们第一次以一个共同体的身份 从根本上改变我们这个世界的机会。
Foreign policy can never be the same again. It cannot be run by elites; it's got to be run by listening to the public opinions of peoples who are blogging, who are communicating with each other around the world.	外交政策将彻底改变，无法由掌权人士一手管控， 而应是遵循那些博客们， 那些在世界范围内与彼此交流的人所代表的民意。
200 years ago the problem we had to solve was slavery.	200年前，我们需要解决的问题是奴隶制度。
150 years ago I suppose the main problem in a country like ours was how young people, children, had the right to education.	150年前，我猜想像我们这样的国家所面临的主要问题 是年轻人、孩子们的受教育权利。
100 years ago in most countries in Europe, the pressure was for the right to vote.	100年前在欧洲的大多数国家，投票选举权面临着巨大压力。
50 years ago the pressure was for the right to social security and welfare.	50年前这股压力则是转向了社会保障福利权。
In the last 50-60 years we have seen fascism, anti-Semitism, racism, apartheid, discrimination on the basis of sex and gender and sexuality; all these have come under pressure because of the campaigns that have been run by people to change the world.	在过往的五六十年里，我们目睹了法西斯主义、反犹太主义、种族歧视、种族隔离 以及种种对性别和性取向的歧视。 这一切都面临着强大的社会压力， 正是由于人们所发起的各种运动，以求改变世界。
I was with Nelson Mandela a year ago, when he was in London.	一年前我在伦敦会见了纳尔逊·曼德拉，
I was at a concert that he was attending to mark his birthday and for the creation of new resources for his foundation.	我们当时正出席一个庆祝曼德拉生日 和他的基金会求得新资源的演唱会。
I was sitting next to Nelson Mandela -- I was very privileged to do so -- when Amy Winehouse came onto the stage.	我当时就坐在曼德拉的身边——我对此感到非常荣幸。 当看到艾米·怀恩豪斯登上舞台的时候，
And Nelson Mandela was quite surprised at the appearance of the singer and I was explaining to him at the time who she was.	曼德拉显得有点吃惊， 我只好向他解释艾米·怀恩豪斯是何许人物。
Amy Winehouse said, "Nelson Mandela and I have a lot in common.	艾米·怀恩豪斯在舞台上说道："曼德拉和我有很多共同之处。
My husband too has spent a long time in prison."	我老公也曾在监狱里蹲了很长一段时间。"
Nelson Mandela then went down to the stage and he summarized the challenge for us all.	随后曼德拉走向舞台， 概述了我们所面临的挑战。
He said in his lifetime he had climbed a great mountain, the mountain of challenging and then defeating racial oppression and defeating apartheid.	他说，在他的有生之年里，他攀越了一座无比陡峻的高山， 一座迎战并且击败种族压迫、隔离的大山。
He said that there was a greater challenge ahead, the challenge of poverty, of climate change -- global challenges that needed global solutions and needed the creation of a truly global society.	他认为前方还有着更艰巨的挑战等待着我们， 贫困的挑战，气候的挑战，种种全球性的挑战 急需着全球性的解决方案， 急需着一个真正的全球性的社会。
We are the first generation which is in a position to do this.	而我们这一代是有实力做到这一切的第一代。
Combine the power of a global ethic with the power of our ability to communicate and organize globally, with the challenges that we now face, most of which are global in their nature.	将一个全球性的道德理念 与我们的传播能力相结合， 再在国际的范围内组织起来， 共同来面对这些全球性的挑战。
Climate change cannot be solved in one country, but has got to be solved by the world working together.	气候变化无法由一个国家来解决， 而是需要全世界同心协力彼此合作。
A financial crisis, just as we have seen, could not be solved by America alone or Europe alone; it needed the world to work together.	金融危机，就如我们目睹的一样， 无法单单依靠美国或是欧洲来得以解决， 而是需要世界范围内的合作。
Take the problems of security and terrorism and, equally, the problem of human rights and development: they cannot be solved by Africa alone; they cannot be solved by America or Europe alone.	或者是来看看国家安全与恐怖主义的问题， 抑或是同等重要的人权与发展的问题， 这些问题都无法由非洲独立解决， 也不能单独依靠美国或是欧洲。
We cannot solve these problems unless we work together.	除非我们合作起来，这些问题是没有办法解决的。
So the great project of our generation, it seems to me, is to build for the first time, out of a global ethic and our global ability to communicate and organize together, a truly global society, built on that ethic but with institutions that can serve that global society and make for a different future.	所以在我看来，我们这一代最重要的工程 就是有史以来第一次通过全球性的道德观、 全球性的沟通和组织能力， 来建立起一个全球性的社会， 以此道德规范为基础，但同时依赖于 为全球性社会服务的种种机构，来开创一个不一样的未来。
We have now, and are the first generation with, the power to do this.	我们是有能力做到这一切的第一代。
Take climate change. Is it not absolutely scandalous that we have a situation where we know that there is a climate change problem, where we know also that that will mean we have to give more resources to the poorest countries to deal with that, when we want to create a global carbon market, but there is no global institution that people have been able to agree upon to deal with this problem?	就拿气候变化来说吧， 我们知道我们正面临着这样的一个局势， 我们知道我们存在着气候变化的问题， 我们也知道我们若是真想创建一个全球性的"碳市场"， 我们就需要捐赠给贫穷国家更多的资源， 帮助他们来处理这一问题， 但尽管如此，我们仍然没有一个 人们可以信赖认可的全球机构来解决这个问题， 这不是相当滑稽可耻的事情吗？
One of the things that has got to come out of Copenhagen in the next few months is an agreement that there will be a global environmental institution that is able to deal with the problems of persuading the whole of the world to move along a climate-change agenda.	几个月后将在哥本哈根举行的气候会议 所必须达成的协议之一 就是建立一个全球性的环境机构， 并且有能力 来敦促整个世界为了气候变化的进程 而共同行动起来。
One of the reasons why an institution is not in itself enough is that we have got to persuade people around the world to change their behavior as well, so you need that global ethic of fairness and responsibility across the generations.	但仅仅建立这样的一个机构是不够的， 原因之一就在于我们还需要说服世界各地的人们 改变他们的日常行为， 这就需要公平、负责的全球道德观 得以代代相传。
Take the financial crisis.	再来看看当下的金融危机。
If people in poorer countries can be hit by a crisis that starts in New York or starts in the sub-prime market of the United States of America.	如果一个从纽约开始、从美国次代市场开始的危机 可以影响到贫穷国家的人们的话，
If people can find that that sub-prime product has been transferred across nations many, many times until it ends up in banks in Iceland or the rest in Britain, and people's ordinary savings are affected by it, then you cannot rely on a system of national supervision.	如果次代产品可以经过多次转手 跨越国界， 最终流通到冰岛的银行 或是英国其他地区， 并且影响到普通民众的存款储蓄的话， 那么一个国家性的监管机构就是不值得信赖的。
You need in the long run for stability, for economic growth, for jobs, as well as for financial stability, global economic institutions that make sure that growth to be sustained has to be shared, and are built on the principle that the prosperity of this world is indivisible.	长期的稳定、经济的增长、 就业的保障以及金融的稳定 都需要全球性的经济体制 来确保稳定的发展得以共享， 并且是建立在"世界的繁荣是不可划分" 的原则之上。
So another challenge for our generation is to create global institutions that reflect our ideas of fairness and responsibility, not the ideas that were the basis of the last stage of financial development over these recent years.	所以说，面临我们这一代的另一个挑战，就是建立起 全球性的机构，来反映我们公正、负责的观念， 而不是过往几年金融发展最后阶段 不牢靠的地基。
Then take development and take the partnership we need between our countries and the rest of the world, the poorest part of the world.	再来看看发展，还有我们和世界其他地区， 尤其是那些贫困地区所需要建立的伙伴关系。
We do not have the basis of a proper partnership for the future, and yet, out of people's desire for a global ethic and a global society that can be done.	我们暂时还没有一个可以在未来建立起一个合适的伙伴关系的基础， 但只要人们渴求一个全球性的道德观、 渴求一个全球性的社会，一切还是可以办到的。
I have just been talking to the President of Sierra Leone.	我刚刚在和塞拉利昂的总统交谈。
This is a country of six and a half million people, but it has only 80 doctors; it has 200 nurses; it has 120 midwives.	那是一个拥有650万人口的国家， 但却只有80个医生，200个护士， 120个助产士。
You cannot begin to build a healthcare system for six million people with such limited resources.	如此短缺的资源是根本无法建立起一个 可以服务600万人民的医疗体系的。
Or take the girl I met when I was in Tanzania, a girl called Miriam.	再来看看我在坦桑尼亚遇到的 一个叫米丽亚姆的女孩。
She was 11 years old; her parents had both died from AIDS, her mother and then her father.	她当时11岁，她的母亲和父亲 一前一后都死于艾滋病。
She was an AIDS orphan being handed across different extended families to be cared for.	她是一名艾滋孤儿，寄人篱下， 从一个亲戚家传到另一个亲戚家。
She herself was suffering from HIV; she was suffering from tuberculosis.	她自己本身也是名艾滋病病毒感染者。 她同时还患有肺结核。
I met her in a field, she was ragged, she had no shoes.	我是在一个田地里遇到的她。她当是赤着脚，而且衣衫褴褛。
When you looked in her eyes, any girl at the age of eleven is looking forward to the future, but there was an unreachable sadness in that girl's eyes and if I could have translated that to the rest of the world for that moment, I believe that all the work that it had done for the global HIV/AIDS fund would be rewarded by people being prepared to make donations.	一般的11岁女孩眼中都充满了对未来的向往， 但是当你注视她的双眼时， 你看到的却是难以触摸到的悲伤。 如果我能把当时的感受传递到世界其他的角落， 我相信那股悲伤将会打动很多人 来为全球的艾滋基金捐款捐力。
We must then build a proper relationship between the richest and the poorest countries based on our desire that they are able to fend for themselves with the investment that is necessary in their agriculture, so that Africa is not a net importer of food, but an exporter of food.	因此，我们必须在富裕国家和贫困国家之间 建立起一个恰达的关系， 建立在我们的渴望之上，那就是，这些贫困国家 可以充分利用他们农业上所需的投资来做到自给自足。 这样一来，非洲将不在是一个食物进口者，而是一个食物出口者。
Take the problems of human rights and the problems of security in so many countries around the world.	再来看看人权问题 还有世界众多国家所面临的安全问题。
Burma is in chains, Zimbabwe is a human tragedy, in Sudan thousands of people have died unnecessarily for wars that we could prevent.	缅甸正被锁链捆绑，津巴布韦是个人间悲剧， 在苏丹，成千上万的人正在本可避免的战争中 无辜地死去。
In the Rwanda Children's Museum, there is a photograph of a 10-year-old boy and the Children's Museum is commemorating the lives that were lost in the Rwandan genocide where a million people died.	在卢旺达的儿童博物馆里 有一张一名十岁男童的照片。 这个儿童博物馆现在正在纪念那些 在卢旺达种族屠杀中所死去的上百万人的生命。
There is a photograph of a boy called David.	照片中的小男孩叫做大卫。
Beside that photograph there is the information about his life.	而照片旁边则是大卫的生平简介。
It said "David, age 10."	上面写到："大卫，十岁。
David: ambition to be a doctor.	梦想：成为一名医生。
Favorite sport: football. What did he enjoy most?	最爱的运动：足球。
Making people laugh.	最喜欢做的事：引人发笑。
How did he die?	死亡原因：
Tortured to death.	折磨致死。
Last words said to his mother who was also tortured to death: "Don't worry. The United Nations are coming."	对他同样被折磨致死的母亲所说的最后一句话： 别担心，联合国的人就要来了。"
And we never did.	可是我们没有。
And that young boy believed our promises that we would help people in difficulty in Rwanda, and we never did.	那个小男孩坚信我们的承诺， 相信我们会帮助那些在卢旺达的受难人民， 但我们却没有。
So we have got to create in this world also institutions for peacekeeping and humanitarian aid, but also for reconstruction and security for some of the conflict-ridden states of the world.	因此我们必须在这个世界建立起 用以维和以及人道救援的机构， 还有帮助那些危难中的国家 重建和安全的机构。
So my argument today is basically this.	所以我今天所要讲的基本上可以总结为如下的几点。
We have the means by which we could create a truly global society.	我们有能力、有办法来创造一个真正的全球化的社会。
The institutions of this global society can be created by our endeavors.	而这个全球化社会的种种机构则需要我们的努力来建立。
That global ethic can infuse the fairness and responsibility that is necessary for these institutions to work, but we should not lose the chance in this generation, in this decade in particular, with President Obama in America, with other people working with us around the world, to create global institutions for the environment, and for finance, and for security and for development, that make sense of our responsibility to other peoples, our desire to bind the world together, and our need to tackle problems that everybody knows exist.	全球性的道德观可以为这些机构注入公正、负责的理念， 使其起到应有的作用， 但同时我们也不应错失我们这一代的机会， 尤其是当下的十年里，协同美国的奥巴马总统， 还有来自全球与我们同心协力的人民， 来创建保卫环境、 金融、 安全与发展的全球机构。 这些机构理应明白我们对他人的责任感， 我们想把这个世界联系起来的渴望感， 还有我们想要解决已知问题的需求感。
It is said that in Ancient Rome that when Cicero spoke to his audiences, people used to turn to each other and say about Cicero, "Great speech."	据说在古罗马，当西塞罗演讲的时候， 人们会转向彼此，谈论西塞罗，"讲得真好。"
But it is said that in Ancient Greece when Demosthenes spoke to his audiences, people turned to each other and didn't say "Great speech."	但是在古希腊， 当狄摩西尼演讲的时候， 人们也会转向彼此，但他们不会说："讲得真好。"
They said, "Let's march."	他们会说，"让我们行动起来吧。"
We should be marching towards a global society.	我们应该为了全球化社会的目标而行动起来。
Thank you.	谢谢大家。
We see with the eyes, but we see with the brain as well.	我们用眼睛看世界 但我们也用大脑看
And seeing with the brain is often called imagination.	用大脑来看，也就是我们常说的想象
And we are familiar with the landscapes of our own imagination, our inscapes. We've lived with them all our lives.	我们很熟悉自己想象的模式 也就是内心世界，它伴随我们一生
But there are also hallucinations as well, and hallucinations are completely different.	然而想象之外还有幻觉 幻觉跟想象截然不同
They don't seem to be of our creation.	它似乎不是我们所创造的
They don't seem to be under our control.	好像也不受我们的控制
They seem to come from the outside, and to mimic perception.	它似乎源自外界 又伪装成我们自己的感知
So I am going to be talking about hallucinations, and a particular sort of visual hallucination which I see among my patients.	所以我将就幻觉做一些解释 也会提到我在病人身上观察到的 一种特殊的视觉幻觉
A few months ago, I got a phone call from a nursing home where I work.	几个月前我接到从我工作的养老院 打来的一个电话
They told me that one of their residents, an old lady in her 90s, was seeing things, and they wondered if she'd gone bonkers or, because she was an old lady, whether she'd had a stroke, or whether she had Alzheimer's.	他们告诉我住客中有一位90多的老太太 "看到了一些东西" 他们怀疑她是不是疯了 或者因为年纪大 得了中风，或是老年痴呆症
And so they asked me if I would come and see Rosalie, the old lady.	所以他们请我去看看罗萨莉 也就是那个老太太
I went in to see her.	我去了后
It was evident straight away that she was perfectly sane and lucid and of good intelligence, but she'd been very startled and very bewildered, because she'd been seeing things.	马上就发现 她不仅完全神志正常 还非常清醒、明智 就是有点吓坏了，还有点奇怪 为什么她会出现幻视
And she told me -- the nurses hadn't mentioned this -- that she was blind, that she had been completely blind from macular degeneration for five years.	她还说 护士忘了告诉我 她眼睛是看不见的 她五年前就因为视网膜黄斑退化而完全失明了
But now, for the last few days, she'd been seeing things.	近几天却看到了幻象
So I said, "What sort of things?"	我问："什么样的幻象？"
And she said, "People in Eastern dress, in drapes, walking up and down stairs.	她说："许多人穿着东方服饰 那种长袍式的，在楼梯上上下下
A man who turns towards me and smiles.	一个男的转过来对我笑
But he has huge teeth on one side of his mouth.	但他的嘴巴只有一边长着牙，很大的牙
Animals too.	还有很多动物
I see a white building. It's snowing, a soft snow.	有一栋白色的楼，天在下雪，小雪
I see this horse with a harness, dragging the snow away.	我还看到一匹戴着挽具的马不断把雪拖走
Then, one night, the scene changes.	然后有一天晚上，幻象变了
I see cats and dogs walking towards me.	变成好多猫和狗朝我这边走
They come to a certain point and then stop.	走着走着就停了
Then it changes again.	然后又变了
I see a lot of children. They are walking up and down stairs.	这回我看到很多小朋友在楼梯上爬上爬下
They wear bright colors, rose and blue, like Eastern dress."	他们穿着颜色鲜艳的衣服，有玫瑰色，有蓝色 就像东方服饰。"
Sometimes, she said, before the people come on, she may hallucinate pink and blue squares on the floor, which seem to go up to the ceiling.	她说，有时候在她看到人之前 她还能看到地板上粉色和蓝色的方块 跑到天花板上
I said, "Is this like a dream?"	我问："像不像做梦？"
And she said, "No, it's not like a dream. It's like a movie."	她说："不，不像梦。像个电影。"
She said, "It's got color. It's got motion.	"它是有颜色的，还有动作
But it's completely silent, like a silent movie."	不过一点声音都没有，像默片。"
And she said that it's a rather boring movie.	她还说那电影相当无聊
She said, "All these people with Eastern dress, walking up and down, very repetitive, very limited."	她说："所有人都穿着东方衣服 爬上爬下，不停地，一点别的花样都没有。"
And she has a sense of humor.	她很幽默
She knew it was a hallucination.	而且知道那是个幻觉
But she was frightened. She'd lived 95 years and she'd never had a hallucination before.	但她有点害怕，因为她活了95年 从来没有出现过幻觉
She said that the hallucinations were unrelated to anything she was thinking or feeling or doing, that they seemed to come on by themselves, or disappear.	她说那些幻觉跟她的意识和行为 一点都不相干 总是这么无缘无故地出现，又无缘无故地消失
She had no control over them.	完全不受她控制
She said she didn't recognize any of the people or places in the hallucinations.	而幻觉中出现的 人和地点 她一个都不认识
And none of the people or the animals, well, they all seemed oblivious of her.	里面的人和动物 也好像看不见她
And she didn't know what was going on.	她不知道这是这么了
She wondered if she was going mad or losing her mind.	她想，她是疯了 还是在失去理智
Well, I examined her carefully.	于是我为这个活泼的老太太
She was a bright old lady, perfectly sane. She had no medical problems.	做了详尽的检查 结果发现她的神智完全正常，没有精神问题
She wasn't on any medications which could produce hallucinations.	她所吃的药也都没有致幻的副作用
But she was blind.	不过，她是盲的
And I then said to her, "I think I know what you have."	所以我说： "我想我知道你的问题是什么了。
I said, "There is a special form of visual hallucination which may go with deteriorating vision or blindness.	有一种特殊的视觉幻觉 会发生在视力受损或完全失明的人身上
This was originally described," I said, "right back in the 18th century, by a man called Charles Bonnet.	这种现象 最早在18世纪 被一个叫查尔斯·邦纳的人描述过
And you have Charles Bonnet syndrome.	你得的就是邦纳症候群
There is nothing wrong with your brain. There is nothing wrong with your mind.	问题既不在你的大脑，也不在你的意识
You have Charles Bonnet syndrome."	你只是得了这种邦纳症候群。"
And she was very relieved at this, that there was nothing seriously the matter, and also rather curious.	她大松一口气 还好不是什么重病 完了还相当好奇
She said, "Who is this Charles Bonnet?"	她问："这个查尔斯
She said, "Did he have them himself?"	他也有这种幻觉吗？
And she said, "Tell all the nurses that I have Charles Bonnet syndrome."	还有，告诉那些护工， 我只不过是得了邦纳症候群。"
"I'm not crazy. I'm not demented. I have Charles Bonnet syndrome."	"我没疯，也没傻，我只是得了邦纳症候群。"
Well, so I did tell the nurses.	于是我照她的意思告诉了护工们
Now this, for me, is a common situation.	其实这种现象对我来说并不稀奇
I work in old-age homes, largely.	我在养老院工作
I see a lot of elderly people who are hearing impaired or visually impaired.	认识很多老人 是听力或视力受损的
About 10 percent of the hearing impaired people get musical hallucinations.	10%的听力受损者 有听觉幻觉
And about 10 percent of the visually impaired people get visual hallucinations.	10%的视力受损者 有视觉幻觉
You don't have to be completely blind, only sufficiently impaired.	不一定要完全失明 或完全听不到，才会有这种幻觉
Now with the original description in the 18th century, Charles Bonnet did not have them.	18世纪的查尔斯·邦纳 其实并没有这种症状
His grandfather had these hallucinations.	产生幻觉的是他的祖父
His grandfather was a magistrate, an elderly man.	一位年长的长官
He'd had cataract surgery.	这个长官曾接受过白内障手术
His vision was pretty poor.	视力不大好
And in 1759, he described to his grandson various things he was seeing.	1759年，他向孙子描述了 他看到的各种各样的幻象
The first thing he said was he saw a handkerchief in midair.	第一个幻象 是一块悬浮在空中的手帕
It was a large blue handkerchief with four orange circles.	大大的，蓝色的 还有四个橙色的圆圈
And he knew it was a hallucination.	他知道这是个幻觉
You don't have handkerchiefs in midair.	因为手帕不会浮在半空
And then he saw a big wheel in midair.	他还看到过一个大轮子浮在空中
But sometimes he wasn't sure whether he was hallucinating or not, because the hallucinations would fit in the context of the visions.	不过有时候他也搞不清楚看到的到底是不是幻觉 因为这些幻觉 会融合在现实的背景里
So on one occasion, when his granddaughters were visiting them, he said, "And who are these handsome young men with you?"	有一次，当他的孙女们来探望他时，他又看到了幻觉 他问："这几个跟你们在一起的帅小伙子是谁啊？"
And they said, "Alas, Grandpapa, there are no handsome young men."	孙女们却说："诶，爷爷，没有你说的帅小伙啊。"
And then the handsome young men disappeared.	突然间帅小伙们就消失了
It's typical of these hallucinations that they may come in a flash and disappear in a flash.	这是一种典型的幻觉 刷一下来，刷一下去
They don't usually fade in and out.	没有渐变
They are rather sudden, and they change suddenly.	相当突然，变得也快
Charles Lullin, the grandfather, saw hundreds of different figures, different landscapes of all sorts.	查尔斯·鲁林，也就是那个祖父 看到过几百个不同的人像 还有各种各样的景色
On one occasion, he saw a man in a bathrobe smoking a pipe, and realized it was himself.	有一次，他看到一个穿浴袍的男人在抽烟斗 然后意识到，那就是他自己
That was the only figure he recognized.	那是唯一一个他辨认出来的人像
On one occasion when he was walking in the streets of Paris, he saw -- this was real -- a scaffolding.	还有一次，他在巴黎的街道上 当真看到了一个脚手架
But when he got back home, he saw a miniature of the scaffolding six inches high, on his study table.	回到家后，却看到了那个脚手架的迷你版 六英尺高，就立在他的书桌上
This repetition of perception is sometimes called palinopsia.	这种感知的重复 有时会被称作视像保留
With him and with Rosalie, what seems to be going on -- and Rosalie said, "What's going on?" -- and I said that as you lose vision, as the visual parts of the brain are no longer getting any input, they become hyperactive and excitable, and they start to fire spontaneously.	这种在查尔斯·鲁林和罗斯莉 身上发生的 让罗斯莉问道"我这是这么了？"的现象 我这么解释吧：随着视力的减退 大脑与视力相关的部分渐渐失去了信息输入 从而进入一种过度活跃的、待激活的状态 于是它开始自发地活动
And you start to see things.	让人产生幻象
The things you see can be very complicated indeed.	产生的幻象可以相当复杂
With another patient of mine, who, also had some vision, the vision she had could be disturbing.	我有一个病人 视力没有完全减退 她看到的幻象比较恼人
On one occasion, she said she saw a man in a striped shirt in a restaurant.	她说有一次她看到 餐馆里有一个穿条纹恤衫的男人
And he turned around. And then he divided into six figures in striped shirts, who started walking towards her.	他转过身 然后就突然分裂成6个同样穿条纹恤衫的人像 开始朝她走来
And then the six figures came together again, like a concertina.	然后六个人就合了起来，就像手风琴一样
Once, when she was driving, or rather, her husband was driving, the road divided into four and she felt herself going simultaneously up four roads.	有一次她正在开车 应该说，是他丈夫在开 路突然就分裂成了4条 她感觉就像同时在4条路上行驶
She had very mobile hallucinations as well.	她的幻觉充满动感
A lot of them had to do with a car.	往往会牵涉到车
Sometimes she would see a teenage boy sitting on the hood of the car.	有时她会看到一个青年男孩 坐在引擎盖上
He was very tenacious and he moved rather gracefully when the car turned.	紧抓不放，车转弯时 他便随着车的动作缓缓倾斜
And then when they came to a stop, the boy would do a sudden vertical takeoff, 100 foot in the air, and then disappear.	车停下后 男孩便会突然垂直飞到100尺的高空 然后消失
Another patient of mine had a different sort of hallucination.	还有一个病人，有另外一种幻觉
This was a woman who didn't have trouble with her eyes, but the visual parts of her brain, a little tumor in the occipital cortex.	这位女病人视力并无问题 问题出在她脑部的视觉部分 她的枕叶皮层有一个小肿瘤
And, above all, she would see cartoons.	尤其引人注意的是，她看到的幻象是卡通的
These cartoons would be transparent and would cover half the visual field, like a screen.	而且是半透明的 像屏幕一样盖住半个视野
And especially she saw cartoons of Kermit the Frog.	特别的是，她看到的是青蛙柯密特（芝麻街人物）
Now, I don't watch Sesame Street, but she made a point of saying, "Why Kermit?" She said, "Kermit the Frog means nothing to me.	我不看芝麻街的 不过她坚持要问我： "为什么是柯密特？"她说，"青蛙柯密特对我来说一点意义都没有啊。"
You know, I was wondering about Freudian determinants.	当时我正在研究弗洛伊德决定因素
Why Kermit?	为什么是柯密特？
Kermit the Frog means nothing to me."	"青蛙柯密特对我来说一点意义都没有啊。"
She didn't mind the cartoons too much.	她并不大关注那部卡通
But what did disturb her was she got very persistent images or hallucinations of faces and as with Rosalie, the faces were often deformed, with very large teeth or very large eyes.	让她非常苦恼的是 这些幻觉持续地出现 而且跟罗斯莉的情况一样，幻觉中的脸往往是扭曲的 要么长着大牙，要么长着大眼
And these frightened her.	这让她感到非常不安
Well, what is going on with these people?	那么，这些病人是怎么了？
As a physician, I have to try and define what's going on, and to reassure people, especially to reassure them that they're not going insane.	作为一个医生，我必须尝试阐释这些现象 来安抚他们 尤其得告诉他们，他们没疯
Something like 10 percent, as I said, of visually impaired people get these.	我前面提到过，视力受损的人 有10%会产生幻觉
But no more than one percent of the people acknowledge them, because they are afraid they will be seen as insane or something.	但不超过1%会承认 因为他们担心会被当成疯子之类
And if they do mention them to their own doctors they may be misdiagnosed.	而如果他们向医生提起这种症状 医生可能会做出错误的诊断
In particular, the notion is that if you see things or hear things, you're going mad, but the psychotic hallucinations are quite different.	而且，大家往往认为 如果你看到或听到幻觉，你就是疯了 其实我们提到的这种幻觉跟精神病幻觉是不一样的
Psychotic hallucinations, whether they are visual or vocal, they address you. They accuse you.	精神病的幻觉，不管是视觉的还是听觉的 都对付你，指控你
They seduce you. They humiliate you.	诱惑你，羞辱你
They jeer at you.	嘲弄你
You interact with them.	跟你互动
There is none of this quality of being addressed with these Charles Bonnet hallucinations.	而这些 都没有出现在邦纳式的幻觉中
There is a film. You're seeing a film which has nothing to do with you, or that's how people think about it.	邦纳式幻觉就像一部电影，尽管你在看，电影却没有牵涉到你 反正患者们是这么认为的
There is also a rare thing called temporal lobe epilepsy, and sometimes, if one has this, one may feel oneself transported back to a time and place in the past.	还有一种少有的症状叫颞叶癫痫 有时，如果一个人产生这种症状 他可能会感到自己被带回 到过去的一个时空
You're at a particular road junction.	在某一个路口
You smell chestnuts roasting.	闻到烤栗子的香味
You hear the traffic. All the senses are involved.	听到车来车往，所有的感官都参与着
And you're waiting for your girl.	等待着心上人
And it's that Tuesday evening back in 1982.	那可能是1982年的某个周二夜晚
And the temporal lobe hallucinations are all-sense hallucinations, full of feeling, full of familiarity, located in space and time, coherent, dramatic.	这种颞叶异常导致的幻觉 是多感官的 充满着情绪和熟悉感 发生在特定时空中 情节合乎逻辑而戏剧感十足
The Charles Bonnet ones are quite different.	邦纳式的不一样
So in the Charles Bonnet hallucinations, you have all sorts of levels, from the geometrical hallucinations -- the pink and blue squares the woman had -- up to quite elaborate hallucinations with figures and especially faces.	在邦纳式幻觉中 有好几种等级 从几何幻觉 比如老太太看到的粉色和蓝色的方块 到非常复杂的幻觉 比如各种人像，尤其是面容
Faces, and sometimes deformed faces, are the single commonest thing in these hallucinations.	这些面容，有时是扭曲的面容 是唯一一种在这些幻觉中 最常见的幻象
And one of the second commonest is cartoons.	一种第二常见的幻象是卡通
So, what is going on?	那么，究竟为什么会产生幻觉呢？
Fascinatingly, in the last few years, it's been possible to do functional brain imagery, to do fMRI on people as they are hallucinating.	很棒的是，近几年 我们能够做出脑功能成像 当我们给正产生幻觉的人做功能性磁共振成像时
And in fact, to find that different parts of the visual brain are activated as they are hallucinating.	我们的确发现大脑视觉部位 有不同区域被激活 这时被检测者正在经历幻觉
When people have these simple geometrical hallucinations, the primary visual cortex is activated.	如果被检测者有的是简单的几何幻觉 被激活的区域则是初级视觉皮质
This is the part of the brain which perceives edges and patterns.	这是大脑感知边缘和图案的部分
You don't form images with your primary visual cortex.	而我们光靠这里是无法形成完整影像的
When images are formed, a higher part of the visual cortex is involved in the temporal lobe.	影像形成时 一个位于颞叶的较高级视觉皮质 会有一定活动
And in particular, one area of the temporal lobe is called the fusiform gyrus.	尤其是颞叶中 叫做梭状回的一个区域，显著地活跃
And it's known that if people have damage in the fusiform gyrus, they maybe lose the ability to recognize faces.	调查显示，如果梭状回损伤 患者可能因此无法辨认面容
But if there is an abnormal activity in the fusiform gyrus, they may hallucinate faces, and this is exactly what you find in some of these people.	而当梭状回异常时 患者则可能看到面容的幻象 这正是我们前面提到的几位病人所出现的症状
There is an area in the anterior part of this gyrus where teeth and eyes are represented, and that part of the gyrus is activated when people get the deformed hallucinations.	梭状回的前部有一个区域 负责处理有关牙齿和眼睛的影像 而当病人出现扭曲的幻觉时 正是这一部位出现了活动
There is another part of the brain which is especially activated when one sees cartoons.	还有一个区域 会在病人看到卡通幻象时 出现活动
It's activated when one recognizes cartoons, when one draws cartoons, and when one hallucinates them.	人们观看卡通 画卡通，或看到卡通幻象时，都是这一部位被激活
It's very interesting that that should be specific.	这是一个特别有趣的现象
There are other parts of the brain which are specifically involved with the recognition and hallucination of buildings and landscapes.	大脑还有几个别的部位 相应地跟其他视觉元素的辨别与幻觉有关 比如楼房和风景
Around 1970, it was found that there were not only parts of the brain, but particular cells.	1970年左右，人们发现特化的不是一块区域 而是相应的脑细胞
"Face cells" were discovered around 1970.	"脸细胞"是1970年左右发现的
And now we know that there are hundreds of other sorts of cells, which can be very, very specific.	至今，我们已经发现了 数百种与各类视觉元素对应的脑细胞 这种对应关系可以非常琐细、明确
So you may not only have "car" cells, you may have "Aston Martin" cells.	比如说 "车"细胞 可能还有"阿斯顿·马丁"细胞
I saw an Aston Martin this morning.	今早我看到一部阿斯顿·马丁
I had to bring it in.	我一直想提提它
And now it's in there somewhere.	现在我的脑子里就有这种"阿斯顿·马丁"细胞
Now, at this level, in what's called the inferotemporal cortex, there are only visual images, or figments or fragments.	那么，这一程度的幻觉，只会由这一整块可以称作下颞叶皮质的区域 形成视觉影像、 幻象，或片段
It's only at higher levels that the other senses join in and there are connections with memory and emotion.	只有更高程度的幻觉 才会有视觉以外的感官参与 同时牵涉到记忆与情感
And in the Charles Bonnet syndrome, you don't go to those higher levels.	在邦纳症候群中 更高程度的幻觉并不会出现
You're in these levels of inferior visual cortex where you have thousands and tens of thousands and millions of images, or figments, or fragmentary figments, all neurally encoded in particular cells or small clusters of cells.	牵涉到初级视觉皮质的幻觉 有上百上千 甚至更多的图像、 幻象，或残缺幻象 这些都被编译 在特定的脑细胞或脑细胞簇中
Normally these are all part of the integrated stream of perception, or imagination, and one is not conscious of them.	这些细胞通常 参与形成感知和想象 人们通常是无法意识到这一过程的
It is only if one is visually impaired or blind that the process is interrupted.	只有当你的视力受损或丧失 这一过程才会被干扰
And instead of getting normal perception, you're getting an anarchic, convulsive stimulation, or release, of all of these visual cells in the inferotemporal cortex.	在这种情况下，你的感知不再正常 一种不受控的、 痉挛的释放活动 发生在位于初级视觉皮质的 这些视觉脑细胞中
So, suddenly you see a face. Suddenly you see a car.	这种活动的结果就是，你突然看到一张脸，转瞬看到一辆车
Suddenly this, and suddenly that.	突然这，突然那
The mind does its best to organize and to give some sort of coherence to this, but not terribly successfully.	大脑会尝试控制场面 尝试使这一切符合逻辑 但不会很成功
When these were first described, it was thought that they could be interpreted like dreams.	这些现象最初被描述时 人们相信，跟梦一样，这种幻觉也能被强行中止
But in fact people say, "I don't recognize the people. I can't form any associations."	不过实际上患者表示 "我认不出来谁是谁。完全没办法想到任何信息。"
"Kermit means nothing to me."	"青蛙柯密特对我来说一点意义都没有啊。"
You don't get anywhere thinking of them as dreams.	把这种现象视作梦的一种是行不通的
Well, I've more or less said what I wanted.	唔，我应该说得差不多了
I think I just want to recapitulate and say this is common.	我再概括一下 其实帮纳症候群是个常见现象
Think of the number of blind people.	你们想，在盲人人群中
There must be hundreds of thousands of blind people who have these hallucinations, but are too scared to mention them.	肯定有上百上千 有这样的幻觉 然而却不敢提起
So this sort of thing needs to be brought into notice, for patients, for doctors, for the public.	所以不管是病人，医生还是公众 都有必要认识到这一现象的常见性
Finally, I think they are infinitely interesting and valuable, for giving one some insight as to how the brain works.	最后 我发现帮助别人认识大脑作用的原理 是一件无比有趣而有意义的事情
Charles Bonnet said, 250 years ago -- he wondered how, thinking these hallucinations, how, as he put it, the theater of the mind could be generated by the machinery of the brain.	查尔斯·邦纳在250年前 在对这些幻觉现象的观察的促使下，思考了这个问题 心智的戏剧性 是如何产生于大脑运作的呢？
Now, 250 years later, I think we're beginning to glimpse how this is done.	250年后的今天 我想我们已经能够开始领悟这个精妙的过程
Thanks very much.	非常感谢
That was superb. Thank you so much.	克里斯·安德森：非常精彩，非常感谢你
You speak about these things with so much insight and empathy for your patients.	你说得非常精到 也很能理解你的病人
Have you yourself experienced any of the syndromes you write about?	你自己有没有过这些症状呢？
Oliver Sacks: I was afraid you'd ask that.	奥利弗·萨克斯：我挺怕你问这个的
Well, yeah, a lot of them.	嗯，有，很大一部分
And actually I'm a little visually impaired myself.	事实上我自己也有一定的视力受损
I'm blind in one eye, and not terribly good in the other.	我的一只眼睛是看不到的，另一只视力也不大好
And I see the geometrical hallucinations.	我看到过几何幻觉
But they stop there.	不过最多也就这个程度了
And they don't disturb you?	安德森：它们会不会让你感到很不安？
Because you understand what's doing it, it doesn't make you worried?	或者说是不是因为你了解这一现象而没这么担心？
OS: Well they don't disturb me any more than my tinnitus, which I ignore.	萨克斯：耳鸣让我烦心得多 耳鸣我也是听而不闻
They occasionally interest me, and I have many pictures of them in my notebooks.	不过偶尔我会对自己的幻觉很感兴趣 我还把它们画在了笔记本里
I've gone and had an fMRI myself, to see how my visual cortex is taking over.	我自己就曾做过功能性磁共振成像 看看我的视觉皮层在造什么反
And when I see all these hexagons and complex things, which I also have, in visual migraine, I wonder whether everyone sees things like this, and whether things like cave art or ornamental art may have been derived from them a bit.	我看到六边形的幻觉 或更复杂的幻觉， 往往伴随着偏头痛 那是我就会想是不是别人也会有这样的幻觉 洞穴壁画和装饰艺术 是不是也取材于这种幻觉
That was an utterly, utterly fascinating talk.	安德森：你今天的演讲非常非常精彩
Thank you so much for sharing.	感谢你的分享
OS: Thank you. Thank you.	萨克斯：谢谢，谢谢
I'm here today to share with you an extraordinary journey -- extraordinarily rewarding journey, actually -- which brought me into training rats to save human lives by detecting landmines and tuberculosis.	我今天和你们分享 一个不同寻常的旅行 - 一个不同寻常的有价值的旅行，事实上 - 我 训练老鼠 去拯救人类的生命 通过探测地雷 和发现肺结核。
As a child, I had two passions.	孩童时，我有两个梦想。
One was a passion for rodents.	第一个梦想是关于啮齿类动物的。
I had all kinds of rats, mice, hamsters, gerbils, squirrels.	我有各种各样的鼠， 老鼠，仓鼠， 沙土鼠，松鼠。
You name it, I bred it, and I sold them to pet shops.	你们能叫上名的鼠，我都喂养过，然后我将它们卖到宠物商店。
I also had a passion for Africa.	我还有一个关于非洲的梦想。
Growing up in a multicultural environment, we had African students in the house, and I learned about their stories, so different backgrounds, dependency on imported know-how, goods, services, exuberant cultural diversity.	在一个多元文化的环境中长大， 我们学校里有非洲的学生， 然后我了解到了他们的故事， 不同的背景， 依赖于引进的技术， 物品，服务， 丰富的多元文化。
Africa was truly fascinating for me.	非洲对我很有吸引力。
I became an industrial engineer, engineer in product development, and I focused on appropriate detection technologies, actually the first appropriate technologies for developing countries.	我成为了工业工程师 - 产品研发的工程师 - 我负责相应的探测技术， 实际上对于发展中国家也是 第一个适用的技术。
I started working in the industry, but I wasn't really happy to contribute to a material consumer society in a linear, extracting and manufacturing mode.	我开始在工业界工作， 但是我工作不开心 来迎合商品消费为主的 线性市场，以及行销手段 和生产的模式。
I quit my job to focus on the real world problem: landmines.	我辞掉了工作专注于实际的现实问题： 地雷。
We're talking '95 now.	我们现在在讨论1995年。
Princess Diana is announcing on TV that landmines form a structural barrier to any development, which is really true.	Diana戴安娜王妃在电视上宣布 地雷对于发展来说成为阻碍， 事实上确实如此。
As long as these devices are there, or there is suspicion of landmines, you can't really enter into the land.	只要地雷在那里， 或者有可能存在地雷， 你就不能到那片土地。
Actually, there was an appeal worldwide for new detectors sustainable in the environments where they're needed to produce, which is mainly in the developing world.	实际上，全球范围都需要 新的探测器 为了可持续发展的环境， 急需这些探测器的地方 尤其是在发展中国家。
We chose rats.	我们选择了鼠。
Why would you choose rats?	为什么会选择鼠呢？
Because, aren't they vermin?	因为，它们是害虫？
Well, actually rats are, in contrary to what most people think about them, rats are highly sociable creatures.	但是，事实上鼠是 - 和多数人想的相反 - 鼠是非常友善的生物。
And actually, our product -- what you see here.	而且实际上，我们的产品 - 你们所看到的。
There's a target somewhere here.	这里某个地方有个地雷。
You see an operator, a trained African with his rats in front who actually are left and right.	你看到了一个受过训练的非洲探测者， 和在他前面的鼠 实际上是左右相伴。
There, the animal finds a mine.	鼠在那里发现了地雷。
It scratches on the soil.	它挖土地。
And the animal comes back for a food reward.	然后鼠得到了食品奖励。
Very, very simple.	非常，非常简单。
Very sustainable in this environment.	非常环保。
Here, the animal gets its food reward.	这里鼠得到了食品奖励。
And that's how it works.	这是它的工作方式。
Very, very simple.	非常，非常简单。
Now why would you use rats?	现在为什么使用鼠呢？
Rats have been used since the '50s last century, in all kinds of experiments.	鼠自从上世纪50年代被使用 在各种各样的实验中。
Rats have more genetic material allocated to olfaction than any other mammal species.	鼠在嗅觉方面有更多的基因 相比于 其它哺乳动物。
They're extremely sensitive to smell.	它们对于味道非常敏感。
Moreover, they have the mechanisms to map all these smells and to communicate about it.	进而，它们具备确定这些味道方位的能力 并能够表达出来。
Now how do we communicate with rats?	我们怎么和鼠交流呢？
Well don't talk rat, but we have a clicker, a standard method for animal training, which you see there.	不用语言， 但是我们有一个发声器， 一个标准的动物训练的方法， 就是你看到的。
A clicker, which makes a particular sound with which you can reinforce particular behaviors.	一个发生器，发出特殊的声音 可以强化某类特定行为。
First of all, we associate the click sound with a food reward, which is smashed banana and peanuts together in a syringe.	首先，我们将声音与食品奖励联系起来， 奖励品是碎香蕉和花生做成的液体。
Once the animal knows click, food, click, food, click, food -- so click is food -- we bring it in a cage with a hole, and actually the animal learns to stick the nose in the hole under which a target scent is placed, and to do that for five seconds -- five seconds, which is long for a rat.	一旦鼠听到了声音，就有食物吃， 声音，食物，声音，食物 - 所以一旦有声音就是食物的反应 - 我们把鼠带到有个洞的笼子里， 然后实际上鼠学会 将鼻子放到洞口 下面带有目标气味的洞口， 它们停留5秒钟 - 5秒钟，对鼠来说很长。
Once the animal knows this, we make the task a bit more difficult.	一旦鼠知道了这个，我们让任务变得难一些。
It learns how to find the target smell in a cage with several holes, up to 10 holes.	它学习如何找到目标气味 在带有一些洞的笼子里，共有10个洞。
Then the animal learns to walk on a leash in the open and find targets.	然后鼠学会 拴着皮带在空地上走 并发现目标。
In the next step, animals learn to find real mines in real minefields.	在下一步,鼠学会 在地雷区发现真正的地雷。
They are tested and accredited according to International Mine Action Standards, just like dogs have to pass a test.	它们被测试和认证 通过国际地雷工作标准， 就像狗通过测试一样。
This consists of 400 square meters.	在这400平方米的雷区，
There's a number of mines placed blindly, and the team of trainer and their rat have to find all the targets.	那里有一些地雷 随意地摆放。 然后训练者和他们的鼠 需要发现所有的目标。
If the animal does that, it gets a license as an accredited animal to be operational in the field -- just like dogs, by the way.	如果鼠成功了，它得到许可 作为被认证的动物 在雷区工作 - 就像狗。
Maybe one slight difference: we can train rats at a fifth of the price of training the mining dog.	可能一个很小的不同是 我们可以用五分之一的价钱训练鼠 相比起训练探雷狗的价钱。
This is our team in Mozambique: one Tanzanian trainer, who transfers the skills to these three Mozambican fellows.	这是我们在莫桑比克的队伍。 一个坦桑尼亚的训练者， 将本领传授给 这三个莫桑比克同伴。
And you should see the pride in the eyes of these people.	你应该能够看到他们眼中的自豪。
They have a skill, which makes them much less dependent on foreign aid.	他们有本领， 这使得他们更少得依靠 国外援助。
Moreover, this small team together with, of course, you need the heavy vehicles and the manual de-miners to follow-up.	进而，这个小团队 当然也需要重型卡车 和人工排雷人员一起进行后续工作。
But with this small investment in a rat capacity, we have demonstrated in Mozambique that we can reduce the cost-price per square meter up to 60 percent of what is currently normal -- two dollars per square meter, we do it at $1.18, and we can still bring that price down.	但是通过在鼠本领上的很小投资， 我们在莫桑比克证明 我们可以将每平方米的成本降低 百分之六十。 相比现在一般的情况 - 每平方米两美元，我们是每平方米1.18美元， 而且我们还可以进一步降低。
Question of scale.	关于发展的问题。
If you can bring in more rats, we can actually make the output even bigger.	如果能够使用更多的鼠， 我们就可以创造更大的产出。
We have a demonstration site in Mozambique.	我们在莫桑比克有演示地点。
Eleven African governments have seen that they can become less dependent by using this technology.	11个非洲政府 看到他们通过使用这种手段就可以变得更少依赖 外部援助。
They have signed the pact for peace and treaty in the Great Lakes region, and they endorse hero rats to clear their common borders of landmines.	他们签订了和平的协定 和在大湖区的公约。 然后他们支持英雄鼠 去清除公共边界上的地雷。
But let me bring you to a very different problem.	但是让我告诉你们一个完全不同的问题。
And there's about 6,000 people last year that walked on a landmine, but worldwide last year, almost 1.9 million died from tuberculosis as a first cause of infection.	在去年大概有6000人 走到地雷上， 但是去年，全球有 近190万人死于结核病 这成为传染病的第一死因。
Especially in Africa where T.B. and HIV are strongly linked, there is a huge common problem.	尤其在非洲 结核病和艾滋病紧密地结合着， 这是一个巨大的共同的问题。
Microscopy, the standard WHO procedure, reaches from 40 to 60 percent reliability.	根据标准的世界卫生组织程序，显微镜 达到百分之四十到六十的可靠度。
In Tanzania -- the numbers don't lie -- 45 percent of people -- T.B. patients -- get diagnosed with T.B. before they die.	在坦桑尼亚 - 数字不会说谎 - 百分之四十五的人是结核病人 - 在死前被诊断出结核。
It means that, if you have T.B., you have more chance that you won't be detected, but will just die from T.B. secondary infections and so on.	这说明，如果你得了结核病， 你反而有更大的可能性不被检测出不适， 但仍然通过结核第二期并发症等致死。
And if, however, you are detected very early, diagnosed early, treatment can start, and even in HIV-positives, it makes sense.	但是，如果 你很早被检测出来，诊断出来， 治疗可以开始。 然后即使是艾滋病阳性，这也是可以治疗的。
You can actually cure T.B., even in HIV-positives.	事实上，你可以治愈结核病， 即便是艾滋病阳性病毒。
So in our common language, Dutch, the name for T.B.	所以在我们共同的语言，荷兰语， 结核病的名称
is "tering," which, etymologically, refers to the smell of tar.	是tering， 语源上是 焦油的味道。
Already the old Chinese and the Greek, Hippocrates, have actually published, documented, that T.B. can be diagnosed based on the volatiles exuding from patients.	古代中国 和希腊希波克拉底， 实际上曾经发表了 也记载了结核病可以被诊断 通过 从病人身体排出的挥发物。
So what we did is we collected some samples -- just as a way of testing -- from hospitals, trained rats on them and see if this works, and wonder, well, we can reach 89 percent sensitivity, 86 percent specificity using multiple rats in a row.	所以我们做的是收集一些样本 - 就像测试一样 - 从医院里， 通过它们训练鼠 然后看是否有效， 并且惊奇发现， 我们的鼠可以达到百分之八十九的灵敏度， 百分之八十六的专一性 通过使用多只鼠在一组测试。
This is how it works, and really, this is a generic technology.	这是工作的方式。 并且实际上，这是一般的技术。
We're talking now explosives, tuberculosis, but can you imagine, you can actually put anything under there.	我们现在讨论的是有关爆炸物，结核， 但是你能想象， 你可以应用鼠于任何地方。
So how does it work?	所以怎么工作呢？
You have a cassette with 10 samples.	你在小盒里放10个样本。
You put these 10 samples at once in the cage.	你一次在笼子里放10个样本。
An animal only needs two hundredths of a second to discriminate the scent, so it goes extremely fast.	一只鼠仅需要0.005秒 去分辨气味，所以是非常快的。
Here it's already at the third sample.	这里已经是第三个样本了。
This is a positive sample.	这是阳性样本。
It gets a click sound and comes for the food reward.	它听到响声并得到食品奖励。
And by doing so, very fast, we can have like a second-line opinion to see which patients are positive, which are negative.	这样，非常快的， 我们可以得到附属的观点 去判断病人的检测是否呈阳性， 是否呈阴性。
Just as an indication, whereas a microscopist can process 40 samples in a day, a rat can process the same amount of samples in seven minutes only.	就像研究显示， 当一个显微镜工作者能够处理 每天40个样本， 一只鼠能够处理 同等数量的样本 仅在7分钟。
A cage like this -- A cage like this -- provided that you have rats, and we have now currently 25 tuberculosis rats -- a cage like this, operating throughout the day, can process 1,680 samples.	一个这样的笼子 - 一个这样的笼子 - 并且你有鼠， 现在我们有 25只结核探测鼠 - 一个这样的笼子，每天运作， 可以处理1680个样本。
Can you imagine the potential offspring applications -- environmental detection of pollutants in soils, customs applications, detection of illicit goods in containers and so on.	你能想象可能的衍生应用 - 环境探测 土地中的污染物， 海关应用， 探测容器中的非法物品等等。
But let's stick first to tuberculosis.	但是首先用于结核病。
I just want to briefly highlight, the blue rods are the scores of microscopy only at the five clinics in Dar es Salaam on a population of 500,000 people, where 15,000 reported to get a test done.	我想简单得强调， 蓝色的杆 是只用显微镜的结果 在Dar es Salaam达累斯萨拉姆的五个诊所 对50万人， 其中1万5千人做过测试。
Microscopy for 1,800 patients.	这是1800个病人的显微镜结果。
And by just presenting the samples once more to the rats and looping those results back, we were able to increase case detection rates by over 30 percent.	然后通过将这些样品多次交给鼠类 并将结果返回， 我们能够将探测率提高 超过百分之三十。
Throughout last year, we've been -- depending on which intervals you take -- we've been consistently increasing case detection rates in five hospitals in Dar es Salaam between 30 and 40 percent.	去年一整年， 我们 - 通过不同间隔时间 - 我们持续地 提高鼠探测率 在达累斯萨拉姆的五个医院 并使鼠探测率提高到百分之三十到四十之间。
So this is really considerable.	所以这真的是很可观的。
Knowing that a missed patient by microscopy infects up to 15 people, healthy people, per year, you can be sure that we have saved lots of lives.	要知道，一个被显微镜误诊的患者 会感染15个人 - 每年15个健康的人， 你可以确定 我们拯救了很多生命。
At least our hero rats have saved lots of lives.	至少我们的英雄鼠拯救了很多生命。
The way forward for us is now to standardize this technology.	我们要做的是 现在去标准化这种技术。
And there are simple things like, for instance, we have a small laser in the sniffer hole where the animal has to stick for five seconds.	然后简单的事情随之出现 像，例如，我们在探测洞放小的激光 使鼠呆五秒。
So, to standardize this.	所以，去标准化这个事情。
Also, to standardize the pellets, the food rewards, and to semi-automate this in order to replicate this on a much larger scale and affect the lives of many more people.	而且，去标准化小球， 食品奖励， 去半自动化这个事 为了能够在更大的范围内得到推广 并且挽救到更多人的生命。
To conclude, there are also other applications at the horizon.	作为结束，还有很多类似的其他应用。
Here is a first prototype of our camera rat, which is a rat with a rat backpack with a camera that can go under rubble to detect for victims after earthquake and so on.	这是第一个模型 对我们的相机鼠， 背着背包 内装有一个相机可以在地震后走到碎石底下 去探测受害者 等等。
This is in a prototype stage.	这是在模型阶段。
We don't have a working system here yet.	我们还没有运作系统。
To conclude, I would actually like to say, you may think this is about rats, these projects, but in the end it is about people.	作为结尾，我实际想要说， 你可能想这都有关于鼠，这些活动都涉及鼠， 但是最后这都是关于人类。
It is about empowering vulnerable communities to tackle difficult, expensive and dangerous humanitarian detection tasks, and doing that with a local resource, plenty available.	这是关于给予弱小群体能力 去处理困难棘手的，昂贵的 和危险的人类探测工作， 并且应用当地的资源 - 很多现成的资源。
So something completely different is to keep on challenging your perception about the resources surrounding you, whether they are environmental, technological, animal, or human.	所以现在很不一样的是 不断地挑战大家 对周围的资源认知， 不管是环境的， 技术的，动物或人类的认知。
And to respectfully harmonize with them in order to foster a sustainable work.	然后我们要尊重并和它们和谐共处 为了实现可持续的工作。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
The Value of Nothing: Out of Nothing Comes Something.	无的价值：无中生有的可能
That was an essay I wrote when I was 11 years old and I got a B+.	这是一篇我在十一岁时写的作文 当时我拿了个乙等。
What I'm going to talk about: nothing out of something, and how we create.	今天我要谈的是创作，和无中生有的艺术
And I'm gonna try and do that within the 18-minute time span that we were told to stay within, and to follow the TED commandments: that is, actually, something that creates a near-death experience, but near-death is good for creativity.	我不但要试着在 大会给我的18分钟时限中完成 并且遵守TED的严格戒律： 我必须说，这些戒律的确让我 有一种濒临死亡的感觉 但濒临死亡是有益于创作的
OK.	好
So, I also want to explain, because Dave Eggers said he was going to heckle me if I said anything that was a lie, or not true to universal creativity.	我还想顺便提到 如果我说谎，或是说的东西不能普世通用 大卫艾格说他将会严厉地质问我
And I've done it this way for half the audience, who is scientific.	这个图是为了听众中的科学家画的
When I say we, I don't mean you, necessarily; I mean me, and my right brain, my left brain and the one that's in between that is the censor and tells me what I'm saying is wrong.	当我使用"我们"的时候，我不一定是指你 而是说我，和我的右脑，我的左脑 还有在它们中间那负责审查的东西 如果我说错了什么，它将会提醒我
And I'm going do that also by looking at what I think is part of my creative process, which includes a number of things that happened, actually -- the nothing started even earlier than the moment in which I'm creating something new.	我也将会谈论 我个人的创作过程 那包含了一些不同的事件 无在更早之前发生 在我开始创作之前就发生了
And that includes nature, and nurture, and what I refer to as nightmares.	那包括了天份，滋养 还有我叫做梦魇的东西
Now in the nature area, we look at whether or not we are innately equipped with something, perhaps in our brains, some abnormal chromosome that causes this muse-like effect.	在天份的方面，我们必须要检视 我们是否生来就有这天赋，或者 在我们的大脑里，是否有些一些不正常的染色体 带来了这些像是灵感的效应
And some people would say that we're born with it in some other means.	有些人会用别的方法说这是我们与生俱来的
And others, like my mother, would say that I get my material from past lives.	还有一些人，像我的母亲 会说我是从前世里找到这些写作材料的
Some people would also say that creativity may be a function of some other neurological quirk -- van Gogh syndrome -- that you have a little bit of, you know, psychosis, or depression.	有些人会说创作力 是一种精神异常的副作用 -- 类似梵高症候群 -- 就是你有一点精神失常，或是忧郁症
I do have to say, somebody -- I read recently that van Gogh wasn't really necessarily psychotic, that he might have had temporal lobe seizures, and that might have caused his spurt of creativity, and I don't -- I suppose it does something in some part of your brain.	但我必须告诉这些人 -- 最近我才读到 梵高其实不一定是精神病患 而更可能得了一种颞叶癫痫症 造成了他这种突然性的创作力 我想那的确会影响你一部分的大脑
And I will mention that I actually developed temporal lobe seizures a number of years ago, but it was during the time I was writing my last book, and some people say that book is quite different.	我也必须提到，事实上 数年前我也有过这种颞叶癫痫 那时我正在写我的上一本书 有些人说那本书很不同
I think that part of it also begins with a sense of identity crisis: you know, who am I, why am I this particular person, why am I not black like everybody else?	还有一部分是从身份危机开始的： 我是谁，为什么我是这个我 为什么我不像别人一样是黑人？
And sometimes you're equipped with skills, but they may not be the kind of skills that enable creativity.	有时候，你装备着那些技能 但它们可能不是一些能带来创造力的技能
I used to draw. I thought I would be an artist.	我以前还会画画。我曾以为我会成为一个画家
And I had a miniature poodle.	这是我画的迷你贵宾狗
And it wasn't bad, but it wasn't really creative.	似乎还不坏，但实在算不上什么创意
Because all I could really do was represent in a very one-on-one way.	因为我所能做的不过是把它们一个个画下来
And I have a sense that I probably copied this from a book.	而且我很有可能还是从一本书上抄绘下来的
And then, I also wasn't really shining in a certain area that I wanted to be, and you know, you look at those scores, and it wasn't bad, but it was not certainly predictive that I would one day make my living out of the artful arrangement of words.	但是我在我真正想要的地方又似乎表现的不是太出色 你知道，你看着那些成绩，是不很差 但也绝不可能让我预测到 有天我竟然能用写作来谋生
Also, one of the principles of creativity is to have a little childhood trauma.	创意的其中一项原则是拥有童年的心理创伤
And I had the usual kind that I think a lot of people had, and that is that, you know, I had expectations placed on me.	我想我有的创伤和一般人一样 来自父母对子女过分热切的期望
That figure right there, by the way, figure right there was a toy given to me when I was but nine years old, and it was to help me become a doctor from a very early age.	那具人体模型 是我在九岁的时候得到的一件玩具， 以助我在童年时期就能踏上成为医生康庄大道
I have some ones that were long lasting: from the age of five to 15, this was supposed to be my side occupation, and it led to a sense of failure.	还有一些持续比较久的心理创伤：从五到十五岁 成为一个钢琴家理应变成我的第二职业 但最终它只变成我感觉失败的来源
But actually, there was something quite real in my life that happened when I was about 14.	但事实上在我人生中是有一些真实的心理创伤 发生在我十四岁的时候
And it was discovered that my brother, in 1967, and then my father, six months later, had brain tumors.	就是发现我的兄弟，在1967年，然后我的父亲 六个月以后，双双长了脑瘤
And my mother believed that something had gone wrong, and she was gonna find out what it was, and she was gonna fix it.	我母亲相信有些事情出错了 她想找出原因，然后解决它
My father was a Baptist minister, and he believed in miracles, and that God's will would take care of that.	我父亲是个牧师，他相信神迹 他相信神会解决那些问题
But, of course, they ended up dying, six months apart.	但当然，他们都过世了，中间隔了六个月
And after that, my mother believed that it was fate, or curses -- she went looking through all the reasons in the universe why this would have happened.	在那之后，我母亲相信那是命运，是诅咒 她找遍了宇宙间所有可能的理由 为什么这件事会发生
Everything except randomness. She did not believe in randomness.	除了偶然以外所有的理由。她不相信偶然
There was a reason for everything.	每件事都有原因
And one of the reasons, she thought, was that her mother, who had died when she was very young, was angry at her.	她相信其中一件原因是在她的母亲 她相信在她幼年就过世的母亲怨恨她
And so, I had this notion of death all around me, because my mother also believed that I would be next, and she would be next.	所以我总被死亡的阴影笼罩着 因为我母亲还相信我会是下一个，或是她会是下一个
And when you are faced with the prospect of death very soon, you begin to think very much about everything.	当你面对死亡的时候 你开始认真思考每件事情
You become very creative, in a survival sense.	你开始非常有创造力，从一种争取生存的角度来说
And this, then, led to my big questions.	这让我想到一个大问题
And they're the same ones that I have today.	一些我今日仍然在想的问题
And they are: why do things happen, and how do things happen?	为什么事情会发生，它们是怎么发生的？
And the one my mother asked: how do I make things happen?	和我母亲问的那句：我怎么让这些事情发生的？
It's a wonderful way to look at these questions, when you write a story.	在撰写故事的时候，这都是一些很重要的问题
Because, after all, in that framework, between page one and 300, you have to answer this question of why things happen, how things happen, in what order they happen. What are the influences?	因为你必须三百页的篇幅中回答这些问题： 为什么事情会这样发生，它是怎么发生的 事情发生的顺序和影响
How do I, as the narrator, as the writer, also influence that?	我，身为一个述说者，对这个故事又有什么影响？
And it's also one that, I think, many of our scientists have been asking.	我想这也是所有科学家所问的问题
It's a kind of cosmology, and I have to develop a cosmology of my own universe, as the creator of that universe.	我在我的世界中发展出自己的宇宙观 像一个宇宙的创造者。
And you see, there's a lot of back and forth in trying to make that happen, trying to figure it out -- years and years, oftentimes.	这中间有许多的反复 尝试着创造，尝试着理出头绪 年复一年，往往。
So, when I look at creativity, I also think that it is this sense or this inability to repress, my looking at associations in practically anything in life.	当我想到创作力的时候，我也认为 这来自一种对日常生活中每件事无法压抑的看法。
And I got a lot of them during what's been going on throughout this conference, almost everything that's been going on.	我在许多事件发生时做出观察 在这个大会中， 几乎是所有发生的事情。
And so I'm going to use, as the metaphor, this association: quantum mechanics, which I really don't understand, but I'm still gonna use it as the process for explaining how it is the metaphor.	让我在这里用量子力学做比喻： 虽然我并不理解量子力学， 但我将以它做为一种过程 来解释为何它是个比喻。
So, in quantum mechanics, of course, you have dark energy and dark matter.	在量子力学中，有着暗能量和暗物质。
And it's the same thing in looking at these questions of how things happen.	就像我们尝试解释事情为何会发生的时候
There's a lot of unknown, and you often don't know what it is except by its absence.	有许多未知，你不知道那是什么，只知道它不在
But when you make those associations, you want them to come together in a kind of synergy in the story, and what you're finding is what matters. The meaning.	但当你尝试找出关联性时 当你希望能在故事中把事件连接起来时 你突然发现了事物的核心。它的意义。
And that's what I look for in my work, a personal meaning.	这就是我在我的作品中所想要找寻的，对我而言的意义。
There is also the uncertainty principle, which is part of quantum mechanics, as I understand it.	在量子力学中还有测不准原理， 至少我想有。
And this happens constantly in the writing.	同样的事也时常发生在写作中。
And there's the terrible and dreaded observer effect, in which you're looking for something, and you know, things are happening simultaneously, and you're looking at it in a different way, and you're trying to really look for the about-ness, or what is this story about. And if you try too hard, then you will only write the about.	还有一种可怕的观者效应， 当你在找寻一些事情的时候， 那些同时发生的事情， 你尝试用不同角度去看它， 你尝试找出它和其他事物的关联性， 或是这个故事和什么有关。如果你过分强求， 最后你写下的只是"关联"。
You won't discover anything.	却什么也没发现。
And what you were supposed to find, what you hoped to find in some serendipitous way, is no longer there.	而你应该找到的， 你真正希望能找到的，在无意中， 却已经不在了。
Now, I don't want to ignore the other side of what happens in our universe, like many of our scientists have.	我并不想忽略 在宇宙另一边发生的事， 像一些科学家所做的一样。
And so, I am going to just throw in string theory here, and just say that creative people are multidimensional, and there are 11 levels, I think, of anxiety.	所以在这里我也要顺便谈谈弦理论， 证明创意人不仅是多维的， 还有着十一种层次的焦虑。
And they all operate at the same time.	而且它们全部一起发生。
There is also a big question of ambiguity.	再来还有模棱两可的问题。
And I would link that to something called the cosmological constant.	像是你们说的宇宙常数。
And you don't know what is operating, but something is operating there.	你不明白什么在运作，但有些事情在运作。
And ambiguity, to me, is very uncomfortable in my life, and I have it. Moral ambiguity.	模棱两可是一种非常不舒服的感觉，对我的人生来说 但它仍然存在。道德的不确定性
It is constantly there. And, just as an example, this is one that recently came to me.	总是存在着。举例来说， 最近刚发生了一件事。
It was something I read in an editorial by a woman who was talking about the war in Iraq. And she said, "Save a man from drowning, you are responsible to him for life."	在我从事编辑工作时，我读到 一个女人在描写伊拉克战争时， 她使用了一句很有名的中国谚语
A very famous Chinese saying, she said.	"救一个溺水者，你便得为他的一生负责。"
And that means because we went into Iraq, we should stay there until things were solved. You know, maybe even 100 years.	意味着既然我们进入了伊拉克，我们便应该长驻 直到事情解决。你知道，就算要上百年
So, there was another one that I came across, and it's "saving fish from drowning."	还有另一个例子 就是"救溺水的游鱼"
And it's what Buddhist fishermen say, because they're not supposed to kill anything.	来自一个信仰佛教的渔夫 佛教相信人不该杀生
And they also have to make a living, and people need to be fed.	但渔夫却仍得谋生，养家
So their way of rationalizing that is they are saving the fish from drowning, and unfortunately, in the process the fish die.	为了将杀生合理化，他们声称自己是在救溺水的鱼 但鱼不幸地在过程中死了。
Now, what's encapsulated in both these drowning metaphors -- actually, one of them is my mother's interpretation, and it is a famous Chinese saying, because she said it to me: "save a man from drowning, you are responsible to him for life."	暗藏在这两个溺水故事中的比喻是 其中一个说法来自我母亲 中国人常说的 "救一个溺水者，你便得为他的一生负责。"
And it was a warning -- don't get involved in other people's business, or you're going to get stuck.	那是一种警告：别管别人的闲事 免得被缠上
OK. I think if somebody really was drowning, she'd save them.	但我想如果真的有人溺水的话，她还是会救他们的
But, both of these sayings -- saving a fish from drowning, or saving a man from drowning -- to me they had to do with intentions.	但这两种说法，不管是救溺水的鱼， 还是溺水的人，这取决与你的意图
And all of us in life, when we see a situation, we have a response.	我们在人生中，都得对我们身边发生的事情做出反应
And then we have intentions.	怀抱着各自的意图
There's an ambiguity of what that should be that we should do, and then we do something.	在我们应该做的，和最后真正做了的两者之间 有一些模棱两可之处
And the results of that may not match what our intentions had been.	而结果也不一定符合我们原本的意图
Maybe things go wrong. And so, after that, what are our responsibilities?	说不定事情搞砸了。若当如此，我们的责任又在哪？
What are we supposed to do?	我们该怎么做？
Do we stay in for life, or do we do something else and justify and say, well, my intentions were good, and therefore I cannot be held responsible for all of it?	我们该留下来负责 还是尝试合理化我们的行为，说，我的本意是好的 所以我不应当负全责
That is the ambiguity in my life that really disturbed me, and led me to write a book called "Saving Fish From Drowning."	这便是我人生中很难接受的模棱两可 甚至让我因此写了本书，就叫做 救一只溺水的鱼
I saw examples of that. Once I identified this question, it was all over the place.	一旦你意识到这个问题，就发现它无所不在
I got these hints everywhere.	在哪里都能看到它的痕迹
And then, in a way, I knew that they had always been there.	同时我也知道，它们一直都在那里。
And then writing, that's what happens. I get these hints, these clues, and I realize that they've been obvious, and yet they have not been.	在写作上，我看见这些暗示，这些线索 我意识到它们一直都在那，但又隐身不见
And what I need, in effect, is a focus.	我需要的是焦点
And when I have the question, it is a focus.	当我有一个问题要问的时候，它就是一个焦点
And all these things that seem to be flotsam and jetsam in life actually go through that question, and what happens is those particular things become relevant.	那些在人生中的灾难都会过去 这些问题，和在这些事件中所发生的事都是有关联的
And it seems like it's happening all the time.	而且它无处不在
You think there's a sort of coincidence going on, a serendipity, in which you're getting all this help from the universe.	你以为它不过是偶发事件，或是碰巧发生的 或许是来自宇宙的帮忙
And it may also be explained that now you have a focus.	也可以解释成，心中有了焦点以后
And you are noticing it more often.	你更能发现它的存在
But you apply this.	当你开始应用它
You begin to look at things having to do with your tensions.	你开始检视那些令你紧张的事情
Your brother, who's fallen in trouble, do you take care of him?	当你的兄弟遇上了麻烦，你该帮助他吗？
Why or why not?	为什么要，又为什么不要？
It may be something that is perhaps more serious -- as I said, human rights in Burma.	它或许比你想象的更为严肃 像缅甸的人权问题
I was thinking that I shouldn't go because somebody said, if I did, it would show that I approved of the military regime there.	我本来想着我是否不应该去，因为有人告诉我 我在那里出现意味着我支持当地的军权统治
And then, after a while, I had to ask myself, "Why do we take on knowledge, why do we take on assumptions that other people have given us?"	但一阵子以后，我自问 "为什么我们要在意他人对我们的想法 或认知？"
And it was the same thing that I felt when I was growing up, and was hearing these rules of moral conduct from my father, who was a Baptist minister.	这和我在成长过程中的感觉很像 我身为牧师的父亲 给我们的所有规则和道德指标
So I decided that I would go to Burma for my own intentions, and still didn't know that if I went there, what the result of that would be, if I wrote a book -- and I just would have to face that later, when the time came.	最后我决定为了我自己去缅甸 而我仍然不知道，到了那里 写一本书，结果又会如何 但我只能等到时机出现的时候，再来面对这些问题
We are all concerned with things that we see in the world that we are aware of.	我们总是在意这世界上我们所感知的事物
We come to this point and say, what do I as an individual do?	我们对自己说：我能做什么？
Not all of us can go to Africa, or work at hospitals, so what do we do, if we have this moral response, this feeling?	不是每个人都可以去非洲，或是在医院工作 我又该如何处理我里面的这个道德感？
Also, I think one of the biggest things we are all looking at, and we talked about today, is genocide.	我想今日的一个重要议题是 种族灭绝
This leads to this question.	我们再次回到同样的问题
When I look at all these things that are morally ambiguous and uncomfortable, and I consider what my intentions should be, I realize it goes back to this identity question that I had when I was a child -- and why am I here, and what is the meaning of my life, and what is my place in the universe?	当我遇见这些在道德上模棱两可，让我感觉不舒服的事件 我的心态又是如何？ 我认知到这让我再次回到孩提时所遇见的身份认知议题 为什么我在这里，人生的意义时什么 我在宇宙间的位置是什么？
It seems so obvious, and yet it is not.	这看起来似乎很明显，但一点也不
We all hate moral ambiguity in some sense, and yet it is also absolutely necessary.	我们都不喜欢道德上的不确定性 但这种不确定感确是绝对必要的
In writing a story, it is the place where I begin.	在我写作的时候，这便是我开始的地方
Sometimes I get help from the universe, it seems.	有时看上去似乎我受到宇宙的帮助
My mother would say it was the ghost of my grandmother from the very first book, because it seemed I knew things I was not supposed to know.	我母亲说从第一本开始，灵感就来自我祖母的鬼魂 因为我似乎知道许多我不应该知道的事
Instead of writing that the grandmother died accidentally, from an overdose of opium, while having too much of a good time, I actually put down in the story that the woman killed herself, and that actually was the way it happened.	我没有描写我的祖母 是因为吃了过量的鸦片而意外过世的 而在故事里描写那女人自杀了 那却是我本来不知道的事实
And my mother decided that that information must have come from my grandmother.	我母亲认为这些资讯一定来自我祖母的鬼魂。
There are also things, quite uncanny, which bring me information that will help me in the writing of the book.	除此以外，还有一些离奇的事件 在写作时为我带来了不同的写作资料
In this case, I was writing a story that included some kind of detail, period of history, a certain location.	当时我正在写一个古代的故事 需要那个年代的历史和地理资料
And I needed to find something historically that would match that.	来补足故事中的细节
And I took down this book, and I -- first page that I flipped it to was exactly the setting, and the time period, and the kind of character I needed -- was the Taiping rebellion, happening in the area near Guilin, outside of that, and a character who thought he was the son of God.	我从书架上拿下这本书 我翻开的第一页便是我故事里的时代和地点 和我在描写太平天国时所需要的人物 在一个接近桂林的地方 和一个认为他是神的儿子的人物。
You wonder, are these things random chance?	你不禁想，这一切都是偶然的吗？
Well, what is random? What is chance? What is luck?	但偶然是什么？机会是什么？运气又是什么？
What are things that you get from the universe that you can't really explain?	那些从天而降的灵感又是什么？
And that goes into the story, too.	这也成为故事的一部分
These are the things I constantly think about from day to day.	这些就是我日复一日想着的事
Especially when good things happen, and, in particular, when bad things happen.	在好事发生的时候 尤其，在坏事发生的时候
But I do think there's a kind of serendipity, and I do want to know what those elements are, so I can thank them, and also try to find them in my life.	但我是相信这种突发灵感的 我也想知道它们形成的元素是什么 我才能感谢，和找到它们
Because, again, I think that when I am aware of them, more of them happen.	因为，我想，我越能察觉它们，它们就发生的越频繁
Another chance encounter is when I went to a place -- I just was with some friends, and we drove randomly to a different place, and we ended up in this non-tourist location, a beautiful village, pristine.	还有一次是一个地方 我只是和朋友漫无目的地开着车 却到了这个旅游景点以外之地 一个淳朴的，古朴的村庄
And we walked three valleys beyond, and the third valley, there was something quite mysterious and ominous, a discomfort I felt. And then I knew that had to be [the] setting of my book.	我们越过了三个山谷 在第三个山谷，我有些神秘的，不舒服的预感 我知道这将成为我故事的场景。
And in writing one of the scenes, it happened in that third valley.	故事里的其中一幕便发生在第三个山谷
For some reason I wrote about cairns -- stacks of rocks -- that a man was building.	其中一幕我写到，一个男人，正摆着石堆
And I didn't know exactly why I had it, but it was so vivid.	我不知道为什么我这样写，但那景象很鲜明
I got stuck, and a friend, when she asked if I would go for a walk with her dogs, that I said, sure. And about 45 minutes later, walking along the beach, I came across this.	我陷入了困境，一个朋友问我要不要和她去遛狗 我说好。四十五分钟后 我在海滩上遇见了一个男人
And it was a man, a Chinese man, and he was stacking these things, not with glue, not with anything.	一个中国男人 他正堆着这些东西。没有胶水，没有任何工具
And I asked him, "How is it possible to do this?"	我问他，这怎么可能？
And he said, "Well, I guess with everything in life, there's a place of balance."	他说，世间每件事 都有一个平衡点
And this was exactly the meaning of my story at that point.	那便是我故事里所要讲的重点
I had so many examples -- I have so many instances like this, when I'm writing a story, and I cannot explain it.	在我的写作过程中 这样的事时常发生 我无法解释
Is it because I had the filter that I have such a strong coincidence in writing about these things?	是否因为我有一种特殊的过滤法 因为这些强烈的巧合正是我想写的事？
Or is it a kind of serendipity that we cannot explain, like the cosmological constant?	或是这真是一些我们所不能解释的突发事件 从天而来？
A big thing that I also think about is accidents.	我也时常想到意外
And as I said, my mother did not believe in randomness.	如我所说 我母亲从不相信偶然
What is the nature of accidents?	那意外又是什么？
And how are we going to assign what the responsibility and the causes are, outside of a court of law?	对于那些法律以外的事件，我们又该如何处理面对 它们的责任归属？
I was able to see that in a firsthand way, when I went to beautiful Dong village, in Guizhou, the poorest province of China.	我有一个切身的经验 我曾经到中国最贫穷的贵州省里的侗族
And I saw this beautiful place. I knew I wanted to come back.	我看见这个美丽的地方 我知道我想再回来
And I had a chance to do that, when National Geographic asked me if I wanted to write anything about China.	当国家地理杂志问我想不想写一些有关中国的文章 我知道我的机会来了
And I said yes, about this village of singing people, singing minority.	我说好，我想写这个唱歌的少数民族
And they agreed, and between the time I saw this place and the next time I went, there was a terrible accident. A man, an old man, fell asleep, and his quilt dropped in a pan of fire that kept him warm.	它们同意了。就在我两次拜访中间 一个悲惨的意外发生了。一个老人 在睡眠中把被子掉在了暖炉上
60 homes were destroyed, and 40 were damaged.	六十户人家全毁，四十户遭到损坏
Responsibility was assigned to the family.	这个家庭得担负责任
The man's sons were banished to live three kilometers away, in a cowshed.	老人的儿子被放逐到三公里外的牛棚
And, of course, as Westerners, we say, "Well, it was an accident. That's not fair.	西方人会说：但那是个不过是个意外，这不公平
It's the son, not the father."	父债不该子还
When I go on a story, I have to let go of those kinds of beliefs.	但当我下笔写这个故事的时候，我得放弃那些原来的想法
It takes a while, but I have to let go of them and just go there, and be there.	这得花上一些时间，但是我必须克服自己，纯粹得去那里亲身经历。
And so I was there on three occasions, different seasons.	所以我在不同的季节里去了三次
And I began to sense something different about the history, and what had happened before, and the nature of life in a very poor village, and what you find as your joys, and your rituals, your traditions, your links with other families. And I saw how this had a kind of justice, in its responsibility.	在这个贫穷的村庄里 我开始对历史 之前发生的事件 和人生的本质 有了不同的感受 什么是让你感到快乐的，你的仪式, 你的传统，我们和其他家庭产生关系的方式。 我开始明白这样的责任归属中，有它自己的正义。
I was able to find out also about the ceremony that they were using, a ceremony they hadn't used in about 29 years. And it was to send some men -- a Feng Shui master sent men down to the underworld on ghost horses.	我也开始了解他们使用的仪式。 一个二十九年没用过的仪式。 让一个风水师送一些人 乘着鬼马进阴间。
Now you, as Westerners, and I, as Westerners, would say well, that's superstition. But after being there for a while, and seeing the amazing things that happened, you begin to wonder whose beliefs are those that are in operation in the world, determining how things happen.	你，身为一个西方人，如我，身为一个西方人， 会说：那不过是迷信。但在那里待了一段时间以后， 亲眼见识到这些神奇的事， 你开始想，究竟是谁的信仰，运作在这个世界上， 决定事情该如何发生。
So I remained with them, and the more I wrote that story, the more I got into those beliefs, and I think that's important for me -- to take on the beliefs, because that is where the story is real, and that is where I'm gonna find the answers to how I feel about certain questions that I have in life.	所以我决定留下来和他们一起 ，我写的越多， 我便越相信这些信仰，这对我来说是重要的 － 去真正接受这些信仰，因为这样，故事才能真实， 那便是我找到的答案 来解决我人生问题的地方。
Years go by, of course, and the writing, it doesn't happen instantly, as I'm trying to convey it to you here at TED.	随着时间过去，我也写了很多作品，但这不是在一瞬间发生的， 在这里，我想对你们说的是
The book comes and it goes. When it arrives, it is no longer my book.	这些书来了又走。当它来到的时候，它已不再属于我，
It is in the hands of readers, and they interpret it differently.	而在每个读者手中，他们有不同的解读。
But I go back to this question of, how do I create something out of nothing?	但我仍然回到同样的问题，我如何无中生有？
And how do I create my own life?	我如何创造自己的生命？
And I think it is by questioning, and saying to myself that there are no absolute truths.	我对它提出问题， 并告诉我自己，它没有一个确定的答案。
I believe in specifics, the specifics of story, and the past, the specifics of that past, and what is happening in the story at that point.	我相信那些具体的事，故事中的细节， 和往事，往事中的细节， 及当时故事中所发生的事。
I also believe that in thinking about things -- my thinking about luck, and fate, and coincidences and accidents, God's will, and the synchrony of mysterious forces -- I will come to some notion of what that is, how we create.	我也相信，在我们考量着这些， 有关运气 、命运 、巧合和意外， 天意，和这些神秘力量的互动时， 我将会对我们的创造力有些概念。
I have to think of my role. Where I am in the universe, and did somebody intend for me to be that way, or is it just something I came up with?	我思考自己的角色 在宇宙中的原因 是否有人要我成为现在这个样子，或是那完全出于我自己？
And I also can find that by imagining fully, and becoming what is imagined -- and yet is in that real world, the fictional world.	我可以借着想象来找到答案，或成为自己想象的模样 在那真实世界，虚构世界，
And that is how I find particles of truth, not the absolute truth, or the whole truth.	这便是我找到部分真理的办法，不是绝对的，或是完全的真理，
And they have to be in all possibilities, including those I never considered before.	它们仍有许多可能性。 包括那些我从未想到的
So, there are never complete answers.	从没有完整的答案
Or rather, if there is an answer, it is to remind myself that there is uncertainty in everything, and that is good, because then I will discover something new.	就算有，也是为了提醒我自己。 一切都是变化无常的 那是件好事 因为我总能发现新东西
And if there is a partial answer, a more complete answer from me, it is to simply imagine.	如果有一个片段的答案 一个更完整的答案 便是简单的想象
And to imagine is to put myself in that story, until there was only -- there is a transparency between me and the story that I am creating.	想象便是将自己放进故事里 直到我和我的故事间完全透明 毫无距离
And that's how I've discovered that if I feel what is in the story -- in one story -- then I come the closest, I think, to knowing what compassion is, to feeling that compassion.	那便是我发现 若我能感觉到故事里的情节 那么 我便接近了 懂得了什么是同感 去完整的感受这同感
Because for everything, in that question of how things happen, it has to do with the feeling.	因为对每件事来说 当我们问事情是怎么发生的 那便和感受有关
I have to become the story in order to understand a lot of that.	我必须成为故事的一部分才能理解
We've come to the end of the talk, and I will reveal what is in the bag, and it is the muse, and it is the things that transform in our lives, that are wonderful and stay with us.	当我们来到演讲的最后 我将揭露袋子里的是什么，那是灵感 是改变我们人生的事物 那些美好的 从不离弃的
There she is.	它在这里。
Thank you very much!	非常感谢！
	（鼓掌）
So in my free time outside of Twitter I experiment a little bit with telling stories online, experimenting with what we can do with new digital tools.	在推特之外的闲暇时间 我对在线讲故事 做了一点实验， 看看我们能用新的数字工具做些什么。
And in my job at Twitter, I actually spent a little bit of time working with authors and storytellers as well, helping to expand out the bounds of what people are experimenting with.	我在推特的工作， 实际上是花了一点时间 与作者和讲故事的人合作， 一起扩展 人们正在实验创造新媒介的疆域。
And I want to talk through some examples today of things that people have done that I think are really fascinating using flexible identity and anonymity on the web and blurring the lines between fact and fiction.	我今天想谈一些 人们在网上所做的事情， 我认为那实在是够吸引人的， 人们在网络上运用灵活的身份或匿名 使事实与虚构之间的界限逐渐模糊。
But I want to start and go back to the 1930s.	但我想先从1930年代开始。
Long before a little thing called Twitter, radio brought us broadcasts and connected millions of people to single points of broadcast.	在推特这件小事发明之前， 无线电带给我们的是广播 它以单点广播 连接了数以百万计的人们。
And from those single points emanated stories.	而从广播中播放出来的故事，
Some of them were familiar stories.	有一些是我们熟悉的故事。
Some of them were new stories.	有一些是新的故事。
And for a while they were familiar formats, but then radio began to evolve its own unique formats specific to that medium.	有一段时间这些故事是以熟悉的方式来述说的， 然后电台就开始进化成 自己独特的模式。
Think about episodes that happened live on radio.	想想在广播电台现场直播发生的情节。
Combining the live play and the serialization of written fiction, you get this new format.	结合现场表演 和书面小说连载的模式， 就变成了一种新形式。
And the reason why I bring up radio is that I think radio is a great example of how a new medium defines new formats which then define new stories.	我以收音机作例的原因是我认为 电台是证明一个新的媒介如何 运用新形式去讲故事的很好的例子。
And of course, today, we have an entirely new medium to play with, which is this online world.	当然，今天，我们有全新的 媒介可供使用， 那就是互联网络世界。
This is the map of verified users on Twitter and the connections between them.	这是使用推特的认证用户 以及他们之间是如何连接的地图。
There are thousands upon thousands of them.	有成千上万的人。
Every single one of these points is its own broadcaster.	每一个点 都是自己的广播站。
We've gone to this world of many to many, where access to the tools is the only barrier to broadcasting.	我们已经来到了一个很多人需要发声的时代， 对连接彼此介质的使用权成为了广播的最大障碍。
And I think that we should start to see wildly new formats emerge as people learn how to tell stories in this new medium.	我认为我们应该开始看到 随着人们学会如何在这个新媒体上讲故事 许多新模式正在应运而生。
I actually believe that we are in a wide open frontier for creative experimentation, if you will, that we've explored and begun to settle this wild land of the Internet and are now just getting ready to start to build structures on it, and those structures are the new formats of storytelling that the Internet will allow us to create.	我相信我们是在广泛开放 创新实验的前沿， 我们已经探讨并开始定义 互联网的这个广阔的土地 并要开始准备 在互联网上建立框架， 而这些框架就是互联网使我们创造 新的说故事的模式。
I believe this starts with an evolution of existing methods.	我相信这起源于对 现有方式的变革。
The short story, for example, people are saying that the short story is experiencing a renaissance of sorts thanks to e-readers, digital marketplaces.	短篇故事，例如， 众人所说短篇故事 因为电子书阅读器和数字市场的产生 正在经历一种复兴。
One writer, Hugh Howey, experimented with short stories on Amazon by releasing one very short story called "Wool."	作家Hugh Howey试验了 在亚马逊网站上 发布了一个非常短的故事叫"羊毛"。
And he actually says that he didn't intend for "Wool" to become a series, but that the audience loved the first story so much they demanded more, and so he gave them more.	他说他实际上根本没打算 把"羊毛"变成一个系列， 但读者那么喜欢第一个故事 他们要求续集，所以他给了读者续集。
He gave them "Wool 2," which was a little bit longer than the first one, "Wool 3," which was even longer, culminating in "Wool 5," which was a 60,000-word novel.	他又写了"羊毛2"，比"羊毛1"篇幅长一些， "羊毛 3"更长一些， 最终在"羊毛 5 "达到顶峰 一个 6万字的小说。
I think Howey was able to do all of this because he had the quick feedback system of e-books.	我认为Howey能够做到这一切都是因为 电子书的快速回馈功能。
He was able to write and publish in relatively short order.	他能在相对较短的时间内 撰写以及发布。
There was no mediator between him and the audience.	在他和他的读者之间没有中介物做阻碍。
It was just him directly connected with his audience and building on the feedback and enthusiasm that they were giving him.	他和他的读者 通过读者给予的回馈和热情 直接连系起来。
So this whole project was an experiment.	所以这整个项目是一项实验。
It started with the one short story, and I think the experimentation actually became a part of Howey's format.	它开始于一个短篇故事， 我觉得实验实际上成为了 Howey模式的一部分。
And that's something that this medium enabled, was experimentation being a part of the format itself.	这就是这一媒介所赋予的， 并在成为这一个媒介的一部分。
This is a short story by the author Jennifer Egan called "Black Box."	这是Jennifer Egan的一个短篇故事 叫做"黑箱"。
It was originally written specifically with Twitter in mind.	它起初是 明确与推特有关的故事
Egan convinced The New Yorker to start a New Yorker fiction account from which they could tweet all of these lines that she created.	Egan 说服纽约客杂志 启动一个纽约客小说帐户 在这个账户里他们可以通过推特发布 所有她撰写的故事。
Now Twitter, of course, has a 140-character limit.	推特当然有140个的字符限制。
Egan mocked that up just writing manually in this storyboard sketchbook, used the physical space constraints of those storyboard squares to write each individual tweet, and those tweets ended up becoming over 600 of them that were serialized by The New Yorker.	Egan直接用手写的方式在 写生簿上涂写 运用这些方框里 物理空间的限制 写入每一个独立的推文， 而这些超过六百篇的推文最终都变成了 纽约客杂志上的连载。
Every night, at 8 p.m., you could tune in to a short story from The New Yorker's fiction account.	每天晚上八点，你都可以调到 纽约客小说账号的短篇故事。
I think that's pretty exciting: tune-in literary fiction.	我认为这是很令人兴奋的： 收看文学小说。
The experience of Egan's story, of course, like anything on Twitter, there were multiple ways to experience it.	Egan的故事，当然， 有很多种方法来实现它。
You could scroll back through it, but interestingly, if you were watching it live, there was this suspense that built because the actual tweets, you had no control over when you would read them.	你可以回看它， 但有趣的是，如果看这个故事的直播， 它本身造成了一种悬念 因为当你阅读他们的时候 你是没有办法控制这些推文的。
They were coming at a pretty regular clip, but as the story was building, normally, as a reader, you control how fast you move through a text, but in this case, The New Yorker did, and they were sending you bit by bit by bit, and you had this suspense of waiting for the next line.	他们在一个平均的剪辑速度上进行， 但是随着故事逐渐的推进， 通常，作为一个读者，你可以控制阅读文本的速度， 但在这种情况下，纽约客杂志所做的是， 他们给你一点，一点，再一点， 让读者有悬念并且期待下一行。
Another great example of fiction and the short story on Twitter, Elliott Holt is an author who wrote a story called "Evidence."	另外一个在推特上关于小说和短篇故事的 一个很好的例子是， 作家Elliott Holt， 他写了一个故事叫《证据》。
It began with this tweet: "On November 28 at 10:13 p.m., a woman identified as Miranda Brown, 44, of Brooklyn, fell to her death from the roof of a Manhattan hotel."	这个故事始于这则推文："十一月二十八日， 晚上十点十三分， 一个女人，认定为米兰达布朗， 四十四岁，来自布鲁克利， 从曼哈顿酒店屋顶坠楼身亡"。
It begins in Elliott's voice, but then Elliott's voice recedes, and we hear the voices of Elsa, Margot and Simon, characters that Elliott created on Twitter specifically to tell this story, a story from multiple perspectives leading up to this moment at 10:13 p.m.	开始是Elliott的声音， 然后Elliott的声音褪去， 我们看到的是Elsa, Margot和Simon, 这些Elliott在推特上特别创建的角色 专门来讲述这个故事， 故事从许多个视角进行讲述 最终引领读者到达了晚上十点十三分，
when this woman falls to her death.	也就是这个女人坠楼身亡的时间。
These three characters brought an authentic vision from multiple perspectives.	这三个角色使这个故事从多方视角进行述说， 给读者带来了一种真实感。
One reviewer called Elliott's story "Twitter fiction done right," because she did.	一个批评家说Elliott的故事 是"名符其实的推特小说，" 因为她做到了。
She captured that voice and she had multiple characters and it happened in real time.	她捕捉到了那个声音 并且她有许多角色， 这个故事也发生在真实的时间内。
Interestingly, though, it wasn't just Twitter as a distribution mechanism.	有趣的是，这不仅仅只是 将推特作为一个发布故事的机制。
It was also Twitter as a production mechanism.	也将推特作为一个产生故事的机制。
Elliott told me later she wrote the whole thing with her thumbs.	Elliott后来告诉我 她用她的大拇指写了整个故事。
She laid on the couch and just went back and forth between different characters tweeting out each line, line by line.	她在沙发上坐定，也就只是 在不同的角色间来来回回 一行一行的发推文。
I think that this kind of spontaneous creation of what was coming out of the characters' voices really lent an authenticity to the characters themselves, but also to this format that she had created of multiple perspectives in a single story on Twitter.	我认为这种同步性创造 故事中角色们的推文 赋予了这些角色本身的真实性 并且也对这个她在推特上创造的 用多重视角讲述一个故事的方式赋予了真实性。
As you begin to play with flexible identity online, it gets even more interesting as you start to interact with the real world.	当你在网络上运用灵活的身份， 并与真实世界开始互动的时候， 它变得越发有趣。
Things like Invisible Obama or the famous "binders full of women" that came up during the 2012 election cycle, or even the fan fiction universe of "West Wing" Twitter in which you have all of these accounts for every single one of the characters in "The West Wing," including the bird that taps at Josh Lyman's window in one single episode.	就像在2012年选举期推特上出现的 "隐形奥巴马" 或者著名的"装满女性简历的档案" （罗姆尼竞选时回答男女薪金公平性的引语，被推特、脸书上的网名调侃） 甚至是"白宫风云"在推特上的粉丝专页 在这里，你能找到在"白宫风云"里 所有角色的推特账号， 甚至包括在某一集里 停在Josh Lyman窗口的一只鸟。
All of these are rapid iterations on a theme.	所有这些都是关于一个主题的复述。
They are creative people experimenting with the bounds of what is possible in this medium.	他们是一群有创意的人 对于在这媒介上可能性的探索。
You look at something like "West Wing" Twitter, in which you have these fictional characters that engage with the real world.	你可以看到在"白宫风云"推特上 这些虚拟角色 与真实世界进行互动。
They comment on politics, they cry out against the evils of Congress.	他们对政治进行评论， 与国会的邪恶进行抗争。
Keep in mind, they're all Democrats.	请记住，他们都是民主党人。
And they engage with the real world.	他们与真实的世界进行互动
They respond to it.	做出反应。
So once you take flexible identity, anonymity, engagement with the real world, and you move beyond simple homage or parody and you put these tools to work in telling a story, that's when things get really interesting.	所以一旦你采取灵活的身份， 匿名，与现实世界互动 你就超越了简单的敬意或模仿 而把这些工具都用来讲述一个故事， 事情就变得有趣起来。
So during the Chicago mayoral election there was a parody account.	所以在芝加哥市长选举期间， 有一个模仿账户
It was Mayor Emanuel.	就是Emanuel市长。
It gave you everything you wanted from Rahm Emanuel, particularly in the expletive department.	这个账户给你所有你想要 从Rahm Emanuel那里了解的事情 尤其是以脏话调侃的形式。
This foul-mouthed account followed the daily activities of the race, providing commentary as it went.	这个满嘴脏话的账户 追踪竞选的日常活动， 随着活动的进行给予评论。
It followed all of the natural tropes of a good, solid Twitter parody account, but then started to get weird.	它一开始还遵守着 一个好的推特模仿账户该有的守则， 然后就开始变得很奇怪。
And as it progressed, it moved from this commentary to a multi-week, real-time science fiction epic in which your protagonist, Rahm Emanuel, engages in multi-dimensional travel on election day, which is -- it didn't actually happen.	随着它的进展，它从评论性演变到了 一个多周的、 实时的虚拟小说 在这里面主角，Rahm Emanuel， 在选举日期间去各种旅行， 这是— — 实际上不会发生的事。
I double checked the newspapers.	我翻阅了报纸新闻。
And then, very interestingly, it came to an end.	然后，非常有趣的是，它结束了。
This is something that doesn't usually happen with a Twitter parody account.	这是一个推特模拟账户 通常不会发生的事情。
It ended, a true narrative conclusion.	它结束了，一个真实的叙述性结论。
And so the author, Dan Sinker, who was a journalist, who was completely anonymous this whole time, I think Dan -- it made a lot of sense for him to turn this into a book, because it was a narrative format in the end, and I think that turning it into a book is representative of this idea that he had created something new that needed to be translated into previous formats.	所以作者，Dan Sinker，是一名记者， 在这段时间内，是完全匿名的 我想对于Dan来说，这是很有意义的， 他想要把这变成一本书， 因为它是以一种叙述手法画下一个句点的， 而且我认为，把它变成一本书 代表着他创造的一种新形式 被转化到了前一种形式。
One of my favorite examples of something that's happening on Twitter right now, actually, is the very absurdist Crimer Show.	一个我最喜欢的例子之一是 现在在推特上正在进行的事， 实际上就是那个荒诞的Crimer Show.
Crimer Show tells the story of a supercriminal and a hapless detective that face off in this exceptionally strange lingo, with all of the tropes of a television show.	Crimer Show讲的是一个 超级罪犯和一个倒霉侦探 像在上电视节目一样， 进行着一些非常奇怪的对话。
Crimer Show's creator has said that it is a parody of a popular type of show in the U.K., but, man, is it weird.	Crimer Show的主创说 这是对英国的一种流行表演的模仿， 但是，老兄，这可真奇怪。
And there are all these times where Crimer, the supercriminal, does all of these TV things.	Crimer，这个超级罪犯， 做的这些个电视行为。
He's always taking off his sunglasses or turning to the camera, but these things just happen in text.	他总是拿下他的太阳镜 或是转身对着相机， 但这些事情只是发生在文本中。
I think borrowing all of these tropes from television and additionally presenting each Crimer Show as an episode, spelled E-P-P-A-S-O-D, "eppasod," presenting them as episodes really, it creates something new.	我想借用这些电视上的行为 放在每一集 Crimer Show里面 并将它们视为情节 真的，它在创建一个新的东西。
There is a new "eppasod" of Crimer Show on Twitter pretty much every day, and they're archived that way.	每一天推特上都上演着 Crimer Show的新一集。 并且以这种方式存储下来。
And I think this is an interesting experiment in format.	我认为这是在对于模式的一种很好的实验。
Something totally new has been created here out of parodying something on television.	一个全新的模式出现了， 模仿电视上发生的一切。
I think in nonfiction real-time storytelling, there are a lot of really excellent examples as well.	我认为在非小说类作品中实时讲故事， 真的有很多很好的例子。
RealTimeWWII is an account that documents what was happening on this day 60 years ago in exceptional detail, as if you were reading the news reports from that day.	RealTimeWWII 是一个 记录60 年前的今天发生了什么的账号， 它记录的格外详细， 就像你在阅读在那天的新闻报道一样。
And the author Teju Cole has done a lot of experimentation with putting a literary twist on events of the news.	作者Teju Cole 对于将新闻事件的文学性报道 做了许多实验。
In this particular case, he's talking about drone strikes.	比如说，这里他在讲无人机轰炸。
I think that in both of these examples, you're beginning to see ways in which people are telling stories with nonfiction content that can be built into new types of fictional storytelling.	我认为，在这些例子里 你开始看到人们运用非小说类作品内容 在说故事 这可以以一种新的虚构故事的模式 来进行。
So with real-time storytelling, blurring the lines between fact and fiction, the real world and the digital world, flexible identity, anonymity, these are all tools that we have accessible to us, and I think that they're just the building blocks.	所以有了实时讲故事， 事实与虚构之间的界限逐渐模糊， 真实的世界和数字世界， 灵活的身份，匿名性， 这些我们可以使用的工具， 而我认为他们只是其中的一小部分而已。
They are the bits that we use to create the structures, the frames, that then become our settlements on this wide open frontier for creative experimentation.	他们是我们 构造结构、框架的一小部分， 它将会成为我们在之上建立的 创新实验的广泛开放前沿。
Thank you.	谢谢。
Thomas Dolby: For pure pleasure please welcome the lovely, the delectable, and the bilingual Rachelle Garniez.	Thomas Dolby: 为了您的快乐， 请欢迎可爱的、 令人愉悦的、 以及精通双语的Rachelle Garniez。
Rachelle Garniez: Quand il me prend dans ses bras Il me parle tout bas, Je vois la vie en rose. Il me dit des mots d'amour, Des mots de tous les jours, Et ca me fait quelque chose. Il est entre dans mon coeur Une part de bonheur Dont je connais la cause. C'est lui pour moi. Moi pour lui Dans la vie, Il me l'a dit, l'a jure [pour] la vie. Et des que je l'apercois Alors je sens en moi Mon coeur qui bat	当他拥我入怀 在我耳边喃语 我看见玫瑰色的人生 他对我说爱的言语 天天有说不完的情话 这对我来说可不一般 一股幸福的暖流 流进我心扉 我清楚它来自何方 这就是你为了我，我为了你 在生命长河里 他对我这样说，这样起誓，以他的生命 当我一想到这些 我便感觉到体内 心在跳跃
[Sanskrit] This is an ode to the mother goddess, that most of us in India learn when we are children.	(音乐） 有一首关于印度神母的颂歌， 是我们大部分的印度人从小就学习的。
I learned it when I was four at my mother's knee.	在我四岁的时候也学习了这首歌 坐在我母亲的膝头上。
That year she introduced me to dance, and thus began my tryst with classical dance.	也正是那一年，她引导我进入舞蹈的殿堂。 而这一开端 正是我与印度古典舞幽会的伊始。
Since then -- it's been four decades now -- I've trained with the best in the field, performed across the globe, taught young and old alike, created, collaborated, choreographed, and wove a rich tapestry of artistry, achievement and awards.	从那时开始，到现在已经40年了—— 我师从这一行最优秀的舞者， 在世界各地演出， 教导年轻的和年老的舞蹈爱好者， 创造，合作， 编舞， 我编织了一个绚丽的挂毯， 用我的艺术，成就，和奖章。
The crowning glory was in 2007, when I received this country's fourth highest civilian award, the Padma Shri, for my contribution to art.	2007年我获得了至高无上的荣誉， 那一年 我得到了印度 授予公民的第四高荣誉，莲花奖 作为我对艺术贡献的回报
But nothing, nothing prepared me for what I was to hear on the first of July 2008.	（观众鼓掌） 但是 任何事都不足以让我有心理准备 去面对我将要得知的 在2008年的7月1号
I heard the word "carcinoma."	我得知了一个词"恶性肿瘤"
Yes, breast cancer.	是的，乳腺癌
As I sat dumbstruck in my doctor's office, I heard other words: "cancer," "stage," "grade."	我坐在医生的办公室里，呆若木鸡 我听到了另外一些词 "癌症"，"期"，"恶性程度"
Until then, Cancer was the zodiac sign of my friend, stage was what I performed on, and grades were what I got in school.	那时之前，癌是十二宫中的巨蟹座。 是我朋友的星座 "期"是我表演的舞台， "恶性程度"是我在学校得到的成绩
That day, I realized I had an unwelcome, uninvited, new life partner.	那一天，我意识到 我有一个不受欢迎的，不请自来的， 新终生伴侣
As a dancer, I know the nine rasas or the navarasas: anger, valor, disgust, humor and fear.	作为一个舞者 我知道九情操（印度古典舞蹈中通过肢体或表情表达不同情绪的方式） 愤怒，勇敢， 厌恶，诙谐 与恐怖
I thought I knew what fear was.	我以为我知道什么是恐惧
That day, I learned what fear was.	那一天，我学会了什么是恐惧
Overcome with the enormity of it all and the complete feeling of loss of control, I shed copious tears and asked my dear husband, Jayant.	经历所有的巨痛 并彻底感到失去控制 我流了很多泪水 问我亲爱的丈夫，Jayant
I said, "Is this it? Is this the end of the road?	我说，"结束了么？这就是我生命之路的尽头么？"
Is this the end of my dance?"	这就是我舞蹈的终结么？
And he, the positive soul that he is, said, "No, this is just a hiatus, a hiatus during the treatment, and you'll get back to doing what you do best."	然而他，这个乐观的灵魂 说，"不，这只是一个间隙 治疗的间隙 而且你将回来做你擅长的事
I realized then that I, who thought I had complete control of my life, had control of only three things: My thought, my mind -- the images that these thoughts created -- and the action that derived from it.	当时我醒悟到 我认为自己完全控制了自己的人生 但我仅仅控制了3件事 我的思想，我的情绪—— 这些思想所创造的想象 和由这些想象所引起的行动
So here I was wallowing in a vortex of emotions and depression and what have you, with the enormity of the situation, wanting to go to a place of healing, health and happiness.	所以现在我沉迷于 一种情绪的漩涡中 沮丧，和那些令你 感到情况的严酷的思绪 我想得到痊愈，健康和幸福
I wanted to go from where I was to where I wanted to be, for which I needed something.	我想从现在的我 到达我想到的彼方 为了达到这一目标
I needed something that would pull me out of all this.	我需要有一股可以把我从痛苦中拉出来的力量
So I dried my tears, and I declared to the world at large ...	所以 我擦干泪水 然后 我向世界宣告
I said, "Cancer's only one page in my life, and I will not allow this page to impact the rest of my life."	我说，癌症只是我生命中的一页 我不会让这一页去影响我其余的人生
I also declared to the world at large that I would ride it out, and I would not allow cancer to ride me.	我还向世界宣告 我将度过难关 我不会允许癌症将我打倒
But to go from where I was to where I wanted to be, I needed something.	但是 要从我的现状 到达我的期望 我需要一些东西
I needed an anchor, an image, a peg to peg this process on, so that I could go from there.	我需要一个依靠，一种意象 一个标杆 钉在这一过程的起始 然后我可以从那里开始
And I found that in my dance, my dance, my strength, my energy, my passion, my very life breath.	然后 我从舞蹈中发现了它 我的舞蹈，我的力量，我的能量，我的热情 我生命的气息
But it wasn't easy.	但这并不容易
Believe me, it definitely wasn't easy.	相信我，这绝不容易
How do you keep cheer when you go from beautiful to bald in three days?	你怎能保持振奋 在你的外型从美丽 在三天之内变成秃字
How do you not despair when, with the body ravaged by chemotherapy, climbing a mere flight of stairs was sheer torture, that to someone like me who could dance for three hours?	你怎能不绝望 在你的身体对化疗产生不良反应时 爬几节楼梯都像攀登险峰 对于我这样一个能连续跳3个小时的舞者？
How do you not get overwhelmed by the despair and the misery of it all?	你怎能不彷徨失措 因为痛苦和绝望
All I wanted to do was curl up and weep.	我想做的只有蜷缩起来哭泣
But I kept telling myself fear and tears are options I did not have.	但是我一直告诉我自己 畏缩和哭泣 都不是我将要做的选择
So I would drag myself into my dance studio -- body, mind and spirit -- every day into my dance studio, and learn everything I learned when I was four, all over again, reworked, relearned, regrouped.	所以我强拉自己到我的舞蹈室 我的身体，思想，和灵魂，每天都在我的舞蹈室 学习我曾经学习过的所有东西 就好像我又回到四岁 从新工作，从头学习，从新组织
It was excruciatingly painful, but I did it.	这一过程非常痛苦，但是我完成了
Difficult.	困难
I focused on my mudras, on the imagery of my dance, on the poetry and the metaphor and the philosophy of the dance itself.	我专注于我的身印手印 专注于我舞蹈的意境 专注于韵律和意象 和舞蹈的哲学本身
And slowly, I moved out of that miserable state of mind.	然后 缓慢的 我脱离了 我心中的悲惨境遇
But I needed something else.	但是 我需要另外一些东西
I needed something to go that extra mile, and I found it in that metaphor which I had learned from my mother when I was four.	我需要增加我的旅程 我在意象中找到了它 那是从我四岁就学起的
The metaphor of Mahishasura Mardhini, of Durga.	湿婆神的意象 杜尔迦女神
Durga, the mother goddess, the fearless one, created by the pantheon of Hindu gods.	杜尔迦女神 无畏的神母 由印度诸神所创造
Durga, resplendent, bedecked, beautiful, her 18 arms ready for warfare, as she rode astride her lion into the battlefield to destroy Mahishasur.	杜尔迦女神 辉煌 雍容 美丽 她的十八支手臂 随时准备战斗 她乘坐神狮 进入战场去毁灭水牛阿修罗
Durga, the epitome of creative feminine energy, or shakti.	杜尔迦女神 女性创造力量的象征 或者叫女性力量
Durga, the fearless one.	杜尔迦 无畏的女神
I made that image of Durga and her every attribute, her every nuance, my very own.	我做成了杜尔迦女神的意象 和她所有的属性和特质 我专属的意象
Powered by the symbology of a myth and the passion of my training, I brought laser-sharp focus into my dance, laser-sharp focus to such an extent that I danced a few weeks after surgery.	在她那种神秘符号的推动下 并伴随着我对训练的热情 我像激光刀般精准的专注于我的舞蹈 像激光刀般专注这样一个领域 在手术之后我跳了几周的舞
I danced through chemo and radiation cycles, much to the dismay of my oncologist.	在化疗和放射疗法的治疗周期我依然跳舞 我的治疗医生很惊异
I danced between chemo and radiation cycles and badgered him to fit it to my performing dance schedule.	我在化疗和放射的期间跳舞 我纠缠着让他使治疗周期 配合我的舞蹈计划
What I had done is I had tuned out of cancer and tuned into my dance.	我所成就的是 我摆脱了癌症 专注于我的舞蹈
Yes, cancer has just been one page in my life.	是的，癌症只成为我生命中的一页
My story is a story of overcoming setbacks, obstacles and challenges that life throws at you.	我的故事 是一个克服挫折 障碍和挑战的故事 那些生命带给你的
My story is the power of thought.	我的故事是思想的力量
My story is the power of choice.	我的故事是选择的力量
It's the power of focus.	是专注的力量
It's the power of bringing ourselves to the attention of something that so animates you, so moves you, that something even like cancer becomes insignificant.	这是一种力量让我们注意那些 赋予我们生机活力 深刻的感动我们 和令癌症变得无足轻重的东西
My story is the power of a metaphor.	我的故事是意境的力量
It's the power of an image.	是意象的力量
Mine was that of Durga, Durga the fearless one.	我的意象是杜尔迦 杜尔迦无畏的女神
She was also called Simhanandini, the one who rode the lion.	她也叫做Simhanandini 骑狮子的人
As I ride out, as I ride my own inner strength, my own inner resilience, armed as I am with what medication can provide and continue treatment, as I ride out into the battlefield of cancer, asking my rogue cells to behave, I want to be known not as a cancer survivor, but as a cancer conqueror.	在我度过难关的过程中 我驾驭了我自己的内在力量 我的内在恢复力 我武装自己并联合治疗效果 我继续治疗 我经历了与癌症的战争 我命令那些肆意妄为的细胞顺从起来 我希望被世人认可，不是作为癌症幸存者 而是作为癌症征服者
I present to you an excerpt of that work "Simhanandini."	我向你们呈现一段我的舞蹈 "狮子吼经"
	（鼓掌） (鼓掌）
Jambo, bonjour, zdravstvujtye, dayo: these are a few of the languages that I've spoken little bits of over the course of the last six weeks, as I've been to 17 countries I think I'm up to, on this crazy tour I've been doing, checking out various aspects of the project that we're doing.	Jambo, bonjour, zdraveite, trayo。这些是几种不同的语言， 我在过去六周里多多少少用到了它们。 我在进行一个非常疯狂的旅行，总共要跑十七个国家， 去为我们正在做的项目做各种各样的事。
And I'm going to tell you a little bit about later on.	我现在就要向你们介绍这个项目。
And visiting some pretty incredible places, places like Mongolia, Cambodia, New Guinea, South Africa, Tanzania twice -- I was here a month ago.	我也见到了各种绝妙的风土人情。 像是蒙古，柬埔寨，新几内亚，南非，我还来过两次坦桑尼亚。 一个月前来过一次。
And the opportunity to make a whirlwind tour of the world like that is utterly amazing, for lots of reasons.	这种旋风式的全球旅行的机会 是绝妙十足的，原因很多，
You see some incredible stuff.	你能长不少见识，
And you get to make these spot comparisons between people all around the globe.	同时你还能比较不同的地区， 比较全球的人种。
And the thing that you really take away from that, the kind of surface thing that you take away from it, is not that we're all one, although I'm going to tell you about that, but rather how different we are.	最重要的是你意识到， 那种最明显的感觉就是， 并不是我们又多么像一个整体，尽管我想和你们讨论这方面。 而是我们彼此有多么的不同。
There is so much diversity around the globe.	放眼全球多种多样的人，
6,000 different languages spoken by six and a half billion people, all different colors, shapes, sizes.	六十五亿人口，不同肤色，不同高矮胖瘦， 讲着六千种不同的语言。
You walk down the street in any big city, you travel like that, and you are amazed at the diversity in the human species.	当你做这样的旅行，当你在任何大城市的大街上漫步， 你会被人类的多样性所惊服。
How do we explain that diversity?	怎样解释这种多样性呢？
Well, that's what I'm going to talk about today, is how we're using the tools of genetics, population genetics in particular, to tell us how we generated this diversity, and how long it took.	这正是我今天要讲的。 就是我们怎样用遗传学的方法， 特别是人口遗传学，来说明我们是怎么进化出多样性的， 还有花了多长时间产生多样性的。
Now, the problem of human diversity, like all big scientific questions -- how do you explain something like that -- can be broken down into sub-questions.	现在，人类多样性的问题， 就像是所有那些重要的科学问题， 很难一下子说清楚。 我们可以把这个大问题分解成一些小问题，
And you can ferret away at those little sub-questions.	然后你就能一个个地解决。
First one is really a question of origins.	第一个小问题其实是关于人类的起源。
Do we all share a common origin, in fact?	我们到底是不是从同一个起点来的？
And given that we do -- and that's the assumption everybody, I think, in this room would make -- when was that?	如果是的话，这也是每个人都赞同的假说， 又是在什么时候？
When did we originate as a species?	从什么时候我们作为一个物种开始存在？
How long have we been divergent from each other?	我们已经开始分支了多长时间？
And the second question is related, but slightly different.	第二个小问题和这个有关，但是很不一样。
If we do spring from a common source, how did we come to occupy every corner of the globe, and in the process generate all of this diversity, the different ways of life, the different appearances, the different languages around the world?	那就是如果我们都是从一个起点来的， 又是怎样散布到世界的各个角落， 怎样一步步产生不同的人种， 不同的生活方式，不同的样貌， 不同的语言的呢？
Well, the question of origins, as with so many other questions in biology, seems to have been answered by Darwin over a century ago.	关于起源的问题，就像很多其他生物学上的问题一样， 看起来已经被达尔文在一百年前就回答了。
In "The Descent of Man," he wrote, "In each great region of the world, the living mammals are closely related to the extinct species of the same region.	在他的书"人类的起源"中，他写道： "在世界的每个区域，现存的哺乳动物 都和同一区域灭绝的物种紧密相连。
It's therefore probable that Africa was formerly inhabited by extinct apes closely allied to the gorilla and chimpanzee, and as these two species are now man's nearest allies, it's somewhat more probable that our early progenitors lived on the African continent than elsewhere."	因此很有可能非洲从前有类人猿，现在灭绝了， 而它们和大猩猩以及黑猩猩相关。 这两个物种是现今人类的最接近的物种， 由此可见，人类的早期祖先 最有可能生活在非洲大陆上，而不是别处。"
So we're done, we can go home -- finished the origin question.	这样问题就解决了，我们可以回家了，我们回答了起源的问题。
Well, not quite. Because Darwin was talking about our distant ancestry, our common ancestry with apes.	等等，并没有完全回答。因为达尔文讲的是我们的远祖， 我们和猿类共享的始祖。
And it is quite clear that apes originated on the African continent.	很明显猿类是从非洲大陆来的。
Around 23 million years ago, they appear in the fossil record.	根据化石记载它们是在两百三十万年前出现的。
Africa was actually disconnected from the other landmasses at that time, due to the vagaries of plate tectonics, floating around the Indian Ocean.	非洲已经和其他大陆分隔开了。 由于捉摸不定的的板块构造，非洲在印度洋上漂浮，
Bumped into Eurasia around 16 million years ago, and then we had the first African exodus, as we call it.	大约一百六十万年前，撞到欧亚板块上， 我们就有了第一次的所谓的"非洲物种外流"。
The apes that left at that time ended up in Southeast Asia, became the gibbons and the orangutans.	那时候离开非洲的猿类到达了东南亚， 演变成了长臂猿和猩猩。
And the ones that stayed on in Africa evolved into the gorillas, the chimpanzees and us.	那些留在非洲的猿类 演变成了大猩猩，黑猩猩，和我们人类。
So, yes, if you're talking about our common ancestry with apes, it's very clear, by looking at the fossil record, we started off here.	所以，如果你指的是我们和猿类的共同祖先， 只要看化石纪录，毫无疑义地，我们是从非洲来的。
But that's not really the question I'm asking.	但是这并不是我想知道的问题。
I'm asking about our human ancestry, things that we would recognize as being like us if they were sitting here in the room.	我指的是原始人类， 从它们变成为人类开始算， 就好像是原始人类现在就在这个房间，
If they were peering over your shoulder, you wouldn't leap back, like that. What about our human ancestry?	如果它们就在你边上， 你不会吓得往后退。什么是原始人类？
Because if we go far enough back, we share a common ancestry with every living thing on Earth.	如果我们追溯起源。 我们能够找到和世界上所有生命的共同起源。
DNA ties us all together, so we share ancestry with barracuda and bacteria and mushrooms, if you go far enough back -- over a billion years.	DNA把我们联系起来，我们甚至和梭鱼， 细菌，蘑菇，都有共同祖先，如果你真的是往回找上十亿年的话。
What we're asking about though is human ancestry.	我们这里讲的是原始的人类祖先。
How do we study that?	怎么研究呢？
Well, historically, it has been studied using the science of paleoanthropology.	古生人类学已经研究了很多年了，
Digging things up out of the ground, and largely on the basis of morphology -- the way things are shaped, often skull shape -- saying, "This looks a little bit more like us than that, so this must be my ancestor.	他们挖掘古生物遗迹， 大部分的分类是根据样貌， 古生物是什么样子的，多数是根据头骨的样子，好比说 "这个比那个看起来更像我们一点点，那么这个想必是我的祖先。
This must be who I'm directly descended from."	我想必是从这个起源演化来的。"
The field of paleoanthropology, I'll argue, gives us lots of fascinating possibilities about our ancestry, but it doesn't give us the probabilities that we really want as scientists.	我得说，古生人类学 向我们提供了很多非常有价值的可能性， 但是没有给我们提供每种可能性的概率，那才是科学家们真正需要的。
What do I mean by that?	怎么说呢？
You're looking at a great example here.	这里是个很好的例子：
These are three extinct species of hominids, potential human ancestors.	三个灭绝了的原始人种， 每个都可能是人类的祖先。
All dug up just west of here in Olduvai Gorge, by the Leakey family.	它们都是在 Olduvai Gorge 以西被 Leakey 家族发掘的。
And they're all dating to roughly the same time.	它们也都是从差不多同一个时期来的。
From left to right, we've got Homo erectus, Homo habilis, and Australopithecus -- now called Paranthropus boisei, the robust australopithecine. Three extinct species, same place, same time.	从左到右，我们有直立人，能人 和南方古猿 — 现在叫做鲍氏傍人的， 也就是更新世灵长类动物。三个已经灭绝的物种，存在于同一个空间，同一个时间。
That means that not all three could be my direct ancestor.	这说明不可能每一个都是我们的祖先。
Which one of these guys am I actually related to?	到底哪一个是呢？
Possibilities about our ancestry, but not the probabilities that we're really looking for.	都有可能性，但是我们要看的是哪个机率更大。
Well, a different approach has been to look at morphology in humans using the only data that people really had at hand until quite recently -- again, largely skull shape.	另一个方法是看人体形态 这也是最近才有的方法 — 大部分是靠头骨的形状。
The first person to do this systematically was Linnaeus, Carl von Linne, a Swedish botanist, who in the eighteenth century took it upon himself to categorize every living organism on the planet.	第一个系统地做这件事的人叫 Linnaeus， Carl von Linne， 是个瑞士植物学家， 十八世纪的人，自己一个人 把地球上所有存在的生物分了类。
You think you've got a tough job?	你还抱怨你的工作难做么？
And he did a pretty good job.	他还做得很不错。
He categorized about 12,000 species in "Systema Naturae."	他把大约一万两千种不同的物种分了类。
He actually coined the term Homo sapiens -- it means wise man in Latin.	还创造了"智人"这个名词 — 拉丁文中的意思是"有智慧的人"。
But looking around the world at the diversity of humans, he said, "Well, you know, we seem to come in discreet sub-species or categories."	但是看看世界上那么多不同的人种，他说： "你知道，我们看起来是差别细微的亚种，或者只是不同类的智人。"
And he talked about Africans and Americans and Asians and Europeans, and a blatantly racist category he termed "Monstrosus," which basically included all the people he didn't like, including imaginary folk like elves.	他提到了非洲人，美洲人，亚洲人和欧洲人， 也公然地把所有他不喜欢的人种 一古脑儿归类成 "monstrosus"， 其中还包括了想象中的人物，比如精灵。
It's easy to dismiss this as the perhaps well-intentioned but ultimately benighted musings of an eighteenth century scientist working in the pre-Darwinian era.	我们很容易对这个结果嗤之以鼻， 虽然这个研究的意图是好的， 毕竟这是达尔文出现前十八世纪的比较愚昧的研究。
Except, if you had taken physical anthropology as recently as 20 or 30 years ago, in many cases you would have learned basically that same classification of humanity.	不过，如果你去上人类学的课， 大概二三十年前， 很多时候你还是学的同样的人类分类法呢。
Human races that according to physical anthropologists of 30, 40 years ago -- Carlton Coon is the best example -- had been diverging from each other -- this was in the post-Darwinian era -- for over a million years, since the time of Homo erectus.	人类种族，在三四十年前的人类学家来看 — Carlton Coon 是最好的例子 — 从直立人时代以来，已经相互分离了 — 这已经是后达尔文时代了 — 一百万年还不止。
But based on what data?	但是有什么证据呢？
Very little. Very little. Morphology and a lot of guesswork.	很少，几乎没有。形态学和很多猜想而已。
Well, what I'm going to talk about today, what I'm going to talk about now is a new approach to this problem.	我今天要介绍给大家的。 现在要讲的，是一个全新的研究方法。
Instead of going out and guessing about our ancestry, digging things up out of the ground, possible ancestors, and saying it on the basis of morphology -- which we still don't completely understand, we don't know the genetic causes underlying this morphological variation -- what we need to do is turn the problem on its head.	不是光靠出去满处挖掘， 猜想谁是你可能的祖先， 就靠着谁长得像， 更别提我们还不太明白怎么确定谁长得像呢。 因为我们并不完全理解基因变异怎么导致了形态的改变。 我们要做的是变被动为主动，
Because what we're really asking is a genealogical problem, or a genealogical question.	因为说到底这是一个家谱的研究。 或者说是家谱问题。
What we're trying to do is construct a family tree for everybody alive today.	我们试图做的是给每个人画一个家谱，
And as any genealogist will tell you -- anybody have a member of the family, or maybe you have tried to construct a family tree, trace back in time?	就像家谱学家对你说的 — 有没有谁家族里有人，或者就是你自己， 试图追根溯源，画出家谱的？
You start in the present, with relationships you're certain about.	你从确信对的亲属关系开始，
You and your siblings, you have a parent in common.	你和你的兄弟姐妹，同样的父母，
You and your cousins share a grandparent in common.	然后加上你的表亲，你们的祖父母是相同的。
You gradually trace further and further back into the past, adding these ever more distant relationships.	你渐渐回溯到越来越早， 加上更多的远亲。
But eventually, no matter how good you are at digging up the church records, and all that stuff, you hit what the genealogists call a brick wall.	但是最终，不管你有多么能干，发掘了教堂的记载， 所有的来源，你还是会遇到一个家谱学家所说的"碰壁"。
A point beyond which you don't know anything else about your ancestors, and you enter this dark and mysterious realm we call history that we have to feel our way through with whispered guidance.	也就是你实在找不出更多的信息了。 你会陷入历史的迷雾， 只能靠着细小的声音找寻出路。
Who were these people who came before?	这些人是谁？谁先谁后？
We have no written record. Well, actually, we do.	我们没有纸上记载。事实上，我们有记录保存下来。
Written in our DNA, in our genetic code -- we have a historical document that takes us back in time to the very earliest days of our species. And that's what we study.	信息都记在我们的DNA里，在我们的基因书中。 就像一本历史长卷，把我们带回过去， 带到我们人种最早的年代去。这就是我们要研究的。
Now, a quick primer on DNA.	现在，简单介绍一下DNA。
I suspect that not everybody in the audience is a geneticist.	我猜不是每个听众都是遗传学家。
It is a very long, linear molecule, a coded version of how to make another copy of you. It's your blueprint.	DNA是个非常长的线状物，一个如何复制你自己的密码书， 也是你的蓝图。
It's composed of four subunits: A, C, G and T, we call them.	DNA有四个成分组成：A，C，G和T。
And it's the sequence of those subunits that defines that blueprint.	这四个成分的组合顺序决定了蓝图，
How long is it? Well, it's billions of these subunits in length.	DNA有多长？有上百亿个成分组成。
A haploid genome -- we actually have two copies of all of our chromosomes -- a haploid genome is around 3.2 billion nucleotides in length.	我们的基因是双份的，我们的染色体有一式两份， 每份基因有三十二亿核酸那么长，
And the whole thing, if you add it all together, is over six billion nucleotides long.	如果你把所有的染色体连起来， 就有多于六十亿核酸长。
If you take all the DNA out of one cell in your body, and stretch it end to end, it's around two meters long.	如果你把你体内一个细胞的DNA拿出来， 头尾相连，大概是两米长。
If you take all the DNA out of every cell in your body, and you stretch it end to end, it would reach from here to the moon and back, thousands of times. It's a lot of information.	如果你把你体内每一个细胞的DNA都拿出来， 头尾相连，可以从地球到月球再回来， 往返成千上万次。这里包含了很多的信息。
And so when you're copying this DNA molecule to pass it on, it's a pretty tough job.	当你复制这些DNA时，试图把信息传到下一代时，是个很难的工作。
Imagine the longest book you can think of, "War and Peace."	想象你知道得最长的书，比如战争与和平，
Now multiply it by 100.	乘上一百倍，
And imagine copying that by hand.	然后想象你手抄这些书，
And you're working away until late at night, and you're very, very careful, and you're drinking coffee and you're paying attention, but, occasionally, when you're copying this by hand, you're going to make a little typo, a spelling mistake -- substitute an I for an E, or a C for a T.	直到深夜， 你非常非常小心，喝咖啡保持清醒， 你注意力高度集中，但是时不时地， 当你手抄的时候， 还是会出错 — 抄错字母。 本来是 I 写成了 E，本来是 C 写成了 T。
Same thing happens to our DNA as it's being passed on through the generations.	这种事情在DNA复制的时候也会发生。
It doesn't happen very often. We have a proofreading mechanism built in.	不常发生，因为我们有查错和纠错的系统，
But when it does happen, and these changes get transmitted down through the generations, they become markers of descent.	但是一旦发生了，这些改变会传到下一代， 刚好变成了世代相传的标签。
If you share a marker with someone, it means you share an ancestor at some point in the past, the person who first had that change in their DNA.	如果你和别人有一个相同标签， 这说明你们血脉相连。 都能连回到那个第一次产生这个标签的人。
And it's by looking at the pattern of genetic variation, the pattern of these markers in people all over the world, and assessing the relative ages when they occurred throughout our history, that we've been able to construct a family tree for everybody alive today.	通过观察基因变异的类型， 全世界人们携带的标签的类型， 来分析标签产生的年代， 正是我们用来给每个人创造家谱的方法。
These are two pieces of DNA that we use quite widely in our work.	这里有两个DNA片断，我们用的很多，
Mitochondrial DNA, tracing a purely maternal line of descent.	一个是线粒体DNA，总是从母亲那里来，
You get your mtDNA from your mother, and your mother's mother, all the way back to the very first woman.	你从你妈妈那里得到线粒体DNA，你妈妈从她的妈妈那里得到， 一直追回到第一个人类女性。
The Y chromosome, the piece of DNA that makes men men, traces a purely paternal line of descent.	还有就是Y染色体，雄性染色体， 能够追溯父系信息。
Everybody in this room, everybody in the world, falls into a lineage somewhere on these trees.	这屋里的每个人，这世界上的每个人， 都能在这些家谱里找到位置。
Now, even though these are simplified versions of the real trees, they're still kind of complicated, so let's simplify them.	现在，即使这些是简化了的家谱， 它们还是很复杂，让我们用更简单的方法看，
Turn them on their sides, combine them so that they look like a tree with the root at the bottom and the branches going up.	把它们侧过来，汇总变成一棵树的样子， 下面有根上面有树枝。
What's the take-home message?	到底说明什么？
Well, the thing that jumps out at you first is that the deepest lineages in our family trees are found within Africa, among Africans.	你最先注意到的 是最深的世代， 是从非洲来的，非洲人。
That means that Africans have been accumulating this mutational diversity for longer.	这说明非洲人集聚了最长时间的 基因变异，
And what that means is that we originated in Africa. It's written in our DNA.	这说明了我们都是从非洲起源的。这是写在DNA里的。
Every piece of DNA we look at has greater diversity within Africa than outside of Africa.	每一个我们研究的DNA片断都在非洲内有更深的多样性。
And at some point in the past, a sub-group of Africans left the African continent to go out and populate the rest of the world.	过去的每个时期，一部分非洲人， 离开了非洲大陆，在世界的其他地方定居了。
Now, how recently do we share this ancestry?	现在的问题是，这发生在多久以前？
Was it millions of years ago, which we might suspect by looking at all this incredible variation around the world?	是在几百万年前么？如我们 从全世界这么多不同的人种来猜想的一样?
No, the DNA tells a story that's very clear.	不是的。DNA把历史弄得很清楚，
Within the last 200,000 years, we all share an ancestor, a single person -- Mitochondrial Eve, you might have heard about her -- in Africa, an African woman who gave rise to all the mitochondrial diversity in the world today.	在过去的二十万年中，我们有共同的祖先，同一个人， 线粒体 Eve — 你可能听说过她 — 在非洲。 这一个非洲女性，就是现今全世界多种多样的线粒体的起源。
But what's even more amazing is that if you look at the Y-chromosome side, the male side of the story, the Y-chromosome Adam only lived around 60,000 years ago.	更令人惊奇的是， 如果你看 Y 染色体， 男性这边， Y 染色体亚当， 存在于六万年前。
That's only about 2,000 human generations, the blink of an eye in an evolutionary sense.	从他数来只不过两千代的人类历史。 对于进化史来说，这不过是一眨眼间的事。
That tells us we were all still living in Africa at that time.	这告诉我们六万年前我们还都生活在非洲，
This was an African man who gave rise to all the Y chromosome diversity around the world.	一个非洲男性 把 Y 染色体传给了全世界。
It's only within the last 60,000 years that we have started to generate this incredible diversity we see around the world.	仅仅是过去的六万年里， 我们人类产生了这个令人难以置信的多样性。
Such an amazing story.	多么令人惊叹。
We're all effectively part of an extended African family.	我们都是这个非洲大家族的一部分。
Now, that seems so recent. Why didn't we start to leave earlier?	看起来这并不是很久以前，为什么我们早没有离开非洲大陆呢？
Why didn't Homo erectus evolve into separate species, or sub-species rather, human races around the world?	为什么直立人没有发展成不同的人种， 或者亚种，而是变成了现在世界上的种族？
Why was it that we seem to have come out of Africa so recently?	为什么我们这么晚才从非洲出来？
Well, that's a big question. These "why" questions, particularly in genetics and the study of history in general, are always the big ones, the ones that are tough to answer.	这是个很重要的问题。这些"为什么"的问题。 尤其是对遗传学和人类史学来说，都一直是很重要的问题。 这些问题很难回答。
And so when all else fails, talk about the weather.	所以我们把注意力转到气候的变化上。
What was going on to the world's weather around 60,000 years ago?	六万年前，世界的气候是什么样的？
Well, we were going into the worst part of the last ice age.	那时候是最后一个冰河时期的最糟糕的一个时候。
The last ice age started roughly 120,000 years ago.	最后的一个冰河时期始于十二万年前，
It went up and down, and it really started to accelerate around 70,000 years ago.	开始不稳定，后来在七万年前加速，
Lots of evidence from sediment cores and the pollen types, oxygen isotopes and so on.	从沉积物， 花粉类型，和氧同位素研究方面有很多证据。
We hit the last glacial maximum around 16,000 years ago, but basically, from 70,000 years on, things were getting really tough, getting very cold. The Northern Hemisphere had massive growing ice sheets.	在一万六千年前我们到达了最后的冰河时代， 但基本上从七万年前开始，气候变得很严酷。 变得很冷。北半球全是冰层，
New York City, Chicago, Seattle, all under a sheet of ice.	纽约，芝加哥，西雅图，这些地区全在冰下。
Most of Britain, all of Scandinavia, covered by ice several kilometers thick.	英国大部分，整个斯堪的那维亚半岛，全被数千米的冰层覆盖。
Now, Africa is the most tropical continent on the planet -- about 85 percent of it lies between Cancer and Capricorn -- and there aren't a lot of glaciers here, except on the high mountains here in East Africa.	那时，非洲是整个星球上最热带的大陆 — 大约百分之八十五处在巨蟹和摩羯座之间， 也没有什么冰河， 除了在东非的一些高山上。
So what was going on here? We weren't covered in ice in Africa.	那里发生了什么呢？我们没有被盖在冰下，
Rather, Africa was drying out at that time.	但是，非洲变得非常干燥。
This is a paleo-climatological map of what Africa looked like between 60,000 and 70,000 years ago, reconstructed from all these pieces of evidence that I mentioned before.	这是个古气候图， 显示了七万年前到六万年前非洲的样子， 这是从所有我之前提到的证据拼起来的。
The reason for that is that ice actually sucks moisture out of the atmosphere.	气候干燥的原因是冰层事实上从大气中吸收水分。
If you think about Antarctica, it's technically a desert, it gets so little precipitation.	试着想象一下南极洲，简直就是个沙漠，没什么降水。
So the whole world was drying out.	所以当时整个世界都变得干燥了。
The sea levels were dropping. And Africa was turning to desert.	海平面下降，非洲变成了沙漠。
The Sahara was much bigger then than it is now.	当时的撒哈拉沙漠比现在的大很多，
And the human habitat was reduced to just a few small pockets, compared to what we have today.	人类的居住地变成了很小的一块块， 和我们今天的活动范围相比。
The evidence from genetic data is that the human population around this time, roughly 70,000 years ago, crashed to fewer than 2,000 individuals.	遗传学的证据表明， 这时候的人类数量，大约七万年前， 掉到少于两千人。
We nearly went extinct. We were hanging on by our fingernails.	我们差一点就灭绝了。我们就差一点点就完了。
And then something happened. A great illustration of it.	接着分支才发生的。这里有个很好的图解，
Look at some stone tools.	看到这些石器了么，
The ones on the left are from Africa, from around a million years ago.	左边的这些是从非洲发掘的，来自大概一百万年前，
The ones on the right were made by Neanderthals, our distant cousins, not our direct ancestors, living in Europe, and they date from around 50,000 or 60,000 years ago.	右边的这些是尼安德特人作的，他们是我们的远祖表亲， 并不是直系祖先，他们生活在欧洲。 他们在五万年六万年前灭绝了。
Now, at the risk of offending any paleoanthropologists or physical anthropologists in the audience, basically there's not a lot of change between these two stone tool groups.	现在，冒着对观众中的 古人类学家以及人类学家不敬的危险， 这两种石器间基本上没什么进化。
The ones on the left are pretty similar to the ones on the right.	左边的看起来和右边得很像。
We are in a period of long cultural stasis from a million years ago until around 60,000 to 70,000 years ago.	我们处在进化休止期，始于一百万年前， 直到七万年前到六万年前左右。
The tool styles don't change that much.	这些工具没有怎么进化。
The evidence is that the human way of life didn't change that much during that period.	这个证据表明，人类的生活方式 在那段时间没有什么变化。
But then 50, 60, 70 thousand years ago, somewhere in that region, all hell breaks loose. Art makes its appearance.	但是五万年，六万年，或者七万年前，非洲的一些地方， 开始产生变化了。艺术开始出现，
The stone tools become much more finely crafted.	石器工具做得精细了。
The evidence is that humans begin to specialize in particular prey species, at particular times of the year.	这些证据说明人类开始在一年中的某个时期， 捕食特定的生物。
The population size started to expand.	人类的数量开始增长，
Probably, according to what many linguists believe, fully modern language, syntactic language -- subject, verb, object -- that we use to convey complex ideas, like I'm doing now, appeared around that time.	很有可能，根据很多语言学家所说， 完整的现代语言，句法语言 — 有主语，动词，宾语的 — 就像我现在用来的传达复杂信息的语言，也是这时候开始出现的。
We became much more social. The social networks expanded.	我们变得更社会性了，社交网络开始变大，
This change in behavior allowed us to survive these worsening conditions in Africa, and they allowed us to start to expand around the world.	这种行为上的进化帮助我们在非洲气候变坏的时候存活下来， 也帮助我们开始迁移到全世界。
We've been talking at this conference about African success stories.	在这个会上我们讨论了很多非洲的成功之处，
Well, you want the ultimate African success story?	这里，你想要听一个最基本的非洲成功的故事么？
Look in the mirror. You're it. The reason you're alive today is because of those changes in our brains that took place in Africa -- probably somewhere in the region where we're sitting right now, around 60, 70 thousand years ago -- allowing us not only to survive in Africa, but to expand out of Africa.	照照镜子，你就是。今天你能够在这里存活， 是因为那时候在非洲人类脑子里的变化。 恐怕就发生在我们现在坐的地方， 六万或者七万年前。 这些变化让我们不光是在非洲存活，也迁移到了非洲之外。
An early coastal migration along the south coast of Asia, leaving Africa around 60,000 years ago, reaching Australia very rapidly, by 50,000 years ago.	早期的海岸线迁移，顺着非洲南海岸， 在六万年前离开非洲大陆， 五万年前抵达了澳洲。
A slightly later migration up into the Middle East.	稍晚一点，另一部分人迁移到了中东，
These would have been savannah hunters.	这些是所谓的草原猎手。
So those of you who are going on one of the post-conference tours, you'll get to see what a real savannah is like.	你们有谁在开会后作旅行的， 你会看到真正的草原猎手是什么样子的。
And it's basically a meat locker.	他们基本上是嗜肉的，
People who would have specialized in killing the animals, hunting the animals on those meat locker savannahs, moving up, following the grasslands into the Middle East around 45,000 years ago, during one of the rare wet phases in the Sahara.	进化成为特级的捕杀动物的人， 这些草原猎人猎杀动物，向北迁移， 在四万五千年前沿着草原进入中东。 那时撒哈拉有一个少见的湿润期。
Migrating eastward, following the grasslands, because that's what they were adapted to live on.	接着他们向东迁移，还是沿着草原， 因为这是适合他们生活的气候，
And when they reached Central Asia, they reached what was effectively a steppe super-highway, a grassland super-highway.	接着他们到了亚洲中部 沿着这个草原高速路， 草原高速通道。
The grasslands at that time -- this was during the last ice age -- stretched basically from Germany all the way over to Korea, and the entire continent was open to them.	那时的草原，还是最后的冰河时期， 从德国一直延伸到韩国， 整个亚洲大陆都是草原。
Entering Europe around 35,000 years ago, and finally, a small group migrating up through the worst weather imaginable, Siberia, inside the Arctic Circle, during the last ice age -- temperature was at -70, -80, even -100, perhaps -- migrating into the Americas, ultimately reaching that final frontier.	人类在三万五千年前进入欧洲， 最后，一小部分跨越最严酷的气候， 来到了西伯利亚， 进入北极圈，还是在最后的冰河时期。 这时候气温是大约负七十华氏，或者负八十，甚至负一百。 他们到了美洲，基本上是最后的前沿。
An amazing story, and it happened first in Africa.	这个是很动人的故事，最先起源是非洲。
The changes that allowed us to do that, the evolution of this highly adaptable brain that we all carry around with us, allowing us to create novel cultures, allowing us to develop the diversity that we see on a whirlwind trip like the one I've just been on.	这些变化给了我们机会， 进化出这个高度适应性的大脑，我们能带着走， 使我们有机会创造新的文化， 使我们有机会变得多种多样， 就像我在之前的旅行中看到的一样。
Now, that story I just told you is literally a whirlwind tour of how we populated the world, the great Paleolithic wanderings of our species.	我给你讲的这个人类进化的故事，就像一个旋风式的旅行 一个人类如何迁移到整个世界的旅行，旧石器时代的奇迹。
And that's the story that I told a couple of years ago in my book, "The Journey of Man," and a film that we made with the same title.	这也是我在几年前 发表的书中讲的故事。"人类的旅程"，以及我们制作的同名电影中讲的故事。
And as we were finishing up that film -- it was co-produced with National Geographic -- I started talking to the folks at NG about this work.	当我们完成这部电影的时候 — 这部电影是和国家地理杂志合作的 — 我开始和国家地理杂志的同事们谈起我的研究。
And they got really excited about it. They liked the film, but they said, "You know, we really see this as kind of the next wave in the study of human origins, where we all came from, using the tools of DNA to map the migrations around the world.	他们觉得很激动，他们喜欢这部电影，但是他们问： "你知道，我们真的觉得 这时研究人类起源，研究我们从哪里来的的新潮流。 用这些DNA工具来做一个人类迁移的地图。
You know, the study of human origins is kind of in our DNA, and we want to take it to the next level.	既然这个人类起源的研究都在我们的DNA中， 我们想进一步做这个故事。
What do you want to do next?"	你下一步的计划是什么？"
Which is a great question to be asked by National Geographic.	国家地理杂志问了个很好的问题。
And I said, "Well, you know, what I've sketched out here is just that.	我说，你知道，我画的这个图只是
It is a very coarse sketch of how we migrated around the planet.	非常粗糙的，给你看我们在整个地球上是怎么迁移的。
And it's based on a few thousand people we've sampled from, you know, a handful of populations around the world.	这些数据只是从我们采样的几千个人中来的 只是世界各地很少的一点数据
Studied a few genetic markers, and there are lots of gaps on this map.	我们只研究了几个基因标记，这个地图上还有很多的间隙。
We've just connected the dots. What we need to do is increase our sample size by an order of magnitude or more -- hundreds of thousands of DNA samples from people all over the world."	我们只是连起了几个点而已。我们现在要做的， 是增加我们采样的人数，至少十倍， 我们需要成千上万世界各地的人的DNA样本。
And that was the genesis of the Genographic Project.	这才是刚刚是基因地理学的开始。
The project launched in April 2005.	这个项目始于2005年四月，
It has three core components. Obviously, science is a big part of it.	包括三个核心项目，当然科学方面是一个。
The field research that we're doing around the world with indigenous peoples.	另一个是实地考察，我们和世界各地的土著们做的
People who have lived in the same location for a long period of time retain a connection to the place where they live that many of the rest of us have lost.	所谓土著是指在同一个地方生活了很长时间的人， 我们能够通过他们生活的地方建立地图的联系， 这是在我们大多数人身上做不到的。
So my ancestors come from all over northern Europe.	比如我的祖先是从欧洲各地来的，
I live in the Eastern Seaboard of North America when I'm not traveling.	我本人定居在北美东海岸，
Where am I indigenous to? Nowhere really. My genes are all jumbled up.	我的家乡是哪里呢？哪儿也不是。我的基因在地图上跳来跳去地混乱了。
But there are people who retain that link to their ancestors that allows us to contextualize the DNA results.	但是有的土著们还能够追随到很远的祖先， 这给我们提供了机会把DNA结果联系起来。
That's the focus of the field research, the centers that we've set up all over the world -- 10 of them, top population geneticists.	这就是这个研究项目的重点。 我们在世界各地设了点， 十个点，都是顶尖的遗传学家。
But, in addition, we wanted to open up this study to anybody around the world.	更进一步，我们希望把这个科学研究向全世界所有人开放。
How often do you get to participate in a big scientific project?	你多久一次能有机会参加一个大型科研项目？
The Human Genome Project, or a Mars Rover mission.	就像是人类基因组计划，或者火星探索？
In this case, you actually can.	这次你有机会了。
You can go onto our website, Nationalgeographic.com/genographic.	你可以上我们的网站，Nationalgeographic.com/genographic
You can order a kit. You can test your own DNA.	定一个匣子，用里面的东西你能测试自己的DNA。
And you can actually submit those results to the database, and tell us a little about your genealogical background, have the data analyzed as part of the scientific effort.	你还能把结果提交给我们的数据库， 再告诉我们一些你的家庭历史 我们就会分析你的DNA数据，当作是这个科研的一部分。
Now, this is all a nonprofit enterprise, and so the money that we raise, after we cover the cost of doing the testing and making the kit components, gets plowed back into the project.	这都不是为了赚钱的。所有的所得， 除去我们做测试和准备这个匣子的费用， 都用来支持这个计划。
The majority going to something we call the Legacy Fund.	大部分会用来当作保留费用，
It's a charitable entity, basically a grant-giving entity that gives money back to indigenous groups around the world for educational, cultural projects initiated by them.	这是用来做慈善事业的钱，本质上是一个给出经费的机构， 把钱给世界各地的土著们， 用来发展教育，文化。
They apply to this fund in order to do various projects, and I'll show you a couple of examples.	他们订计划我们经费支持，他们把经费用在各种项目上。 让我给你们几个例子。
So how are we doing on the project? We've got about 25,000 samples collected from indigenous people around the world.	现在这个项目在做什么呢？我们已经得到了两万五千个样本， 从全世界各地的人种上得到的。
The most amazing thing has been the interest on the part of the public; 210,000 people have ordered these participation kits since we launched two years ago, which has raised around five million dollars, the majority of which, at least half, is going back into the Legacy Fund.	最令人惊奇的公众的兴趣。 两年来二十一万人 购买了我们的匣子。 我们赚了五百万。 绝大部分的钱，回流注入了这个保留基金。
We've just awarded the first Legacy Grants totaling around 500,000 dollars.	我们刚刚给了第一个基金会五十万。
Projects around the world -- documenting oral poetry in Sierra Leone, preserving traditional weaving patterns in Gaza, language revitalization in Tajikistan, etc., etc.	用于全球范围的文化项目，比如在塞拉利昂记录保存口头流传的诗歌， 在加沙保存传统的编织式样， 在塔克亚复兴当地语言，等等，等等。
So the project is going very, very well, and I urge you to check out the website and watch this space.	这个项目进行得非常非常顺利。 而我在这里，鼓励大家都去访问我们的网页，关注我们的进展。
Thank you very much.	谢谢大家。
I've been playing TED for nearly a decade, and I've very rarely played any new songs of my own.	我已在TED演奏了将近十年， 可是我几乎很少 演奏自己的新歌。
And that was largely because there weren't any.	主要原因是，根本就没有。
So I've been busy with a couple of projects, and one of them was this: The Nutmeg.	我一直在忙于几个项目， 其中一个， 叫做"肉豆蔻"（植物名）--
A 1930s ship's lifeboat, which I've been restoring in the garden of my beach house in England.	一艘20世纪30年代的救生艇。 我把它停放在我那英格兰的海滩别墅 一个后花园里。
And, so now, when the polar ice caps melt, my recording studio will rise up like an ark, and I'll float off into the drowned world like a character from a J.G. Ballard novel.	要是现在 北极的冰川融化， 我的这艘录音室就会浮起来有如诺亚方舟， 在这个淹没的世界里漂向远方， 就像英国作家J·G·巴拉德小说里的角色一样。
During the day, the Nutmeg collects energy from solar panels on the roof of the wheelhouse, and from a 450 watt turbine up the mast.	白天， "肉豆蔻"可以通过舵手室里的太阳能电池板， 收集太阳能， 和桅杆上一个 450瓦特的涡轮机。
So that when it gets dark, I've got plenty of power.	那么当夜幕降临， 我就有足够的电力照明，
And I can light up the Nutmeg like a beacon.	点亮照明灯，在黑暗中仿佛灯塔。
And so I go in there until the early hours of the morning, and I work on new songs.	我便待在里面创作直到天明。 我已经完成几首新歌，
I'd like to play to you guys, if you're willing to be the first audience to hear it.	如果你们愿意成为第一批听众， 我将非常乐意演奏。
It's about Billie Holiday.	（鼓掌） 是关于比利霍利迪的。
And it appears that, some night in 1947 she left her physical space and was missing all night, until she reappeared in the morning.	当时有传说， 1974年的某个夜晚， 她离开那个时空， 消失了一整晚， 直到第二天早晨又再度出现。
But I know where she was.	不过我知道她去了哪里，
She was with me on my lifeboat.	其实她和我一起在这艘方舟，
And she was hot.	她很火辣。
Billie crept softly into my waking arms warm like a sip of sour mash Strange fruit for a sweet hunk of trash Panic at the stage door of Carnegie Hall "Famous Jazz Singer Gone AWOL" Must have left the building body and soul On a creaky piano stool tonight as the moon is my only witness She was breathing in my ear "This time it's love" But love is a loaded pistol By daybreak she's gone Over the frozen river, home Me and Johnny Walker See in the new age alone Stay with me again tonight Billie, time, time is a wily trickster Still an echo in my heart says, "This time it's love"	比利温柔地躺进 醒来后我的臂弯 温暖得好似一口波本威士忌 怪诞却成效十足 温柔却总犯傻的她 慌乱在舞台前的走廊口 卡内基大厅 名爵士歌唱者，擅离职守 定是离开了大楼 身心并去，毫不愧疚 今夜躲藏在已老朽的 钢琴凳旁 因为月亮是我的唯一的见证 唯一的见证 她轻轻 呼吸在我耳旁 此时此刻，就是爱吧 可是，爱好似上膛的枪 天明她就要离开 去到冰冷的河岸，她的家 剩下我和我的酒 相伴于未来的日子 孤单孑然 留下吧 今夜再留下吧 比利，你知道吗 时间是多么奸诈的诡计家 让那个回忆不断回响 它在我心里轻声说 这次，是爱吧
I was basically concerned about what was going on in the world.	我基本上比较关心世界上所发生的事情。
I couldn't understand the starvation, the destruction, the killing of innocent people.	我不明白 那些饥饿、破坏 以及对无辜人们的杀戮
Making sense of those things is a very difficult thing to do.	搞清楚这些 真是一件很难的事情
And when I was 12, I became an actor.	12岁的时候，我成为了一个演员。
I was bottom of the class. I haven't got any qualifications.	我处于社会的最底层，没有任何资历。
I was told I was dyslexic.	别人说我有诵读困难症。
In fact, I have got qualifications.	事实上，我也是有证书的。
I got a D in pottery, which was the one thing that I did get -- which was useful, obviously.	我在制作陶器上拿到了"D"，这的确是我得到的一个证书。 显然，这是有用的。
And so concern is where all of this comes from.	所以焦虑 是所有这些的来源。
And then, being an actor, I was doing these different kinds of things, and I felt the content of the work that I was involved in really wasn't cutting it, that there surely had to be more.	作为一个演员，我一直在做着这些不同的事情。 我觉得我参与的这些工作 并没有让这种焦虑减少，而且我会越来越焦虑。
And at that point, I read a book by Frank Barnaby, this wonderful nuclear physicist, and he said that media had a responsibility, that all sectors of society had a responsibility to try and progress things and move things forward.	在那个时候，我读了弗兰克·巴纳的一本书。 他是一个伟大的核物理学家。 他认为媒体有责任、 社会的各个部门都有责任 去尝试并推动事情的发展。
And that fascinated me, because I'd been messing around with a camera most of my life.	这使我着迷， 因为我大部分时间都一直拿着摄像机到处闲混。
And then I thought, well maybe I could do something.	于是我想，或许我可以做点什么。
Maybe I could become a filmmaker.	没准我可以成为一个电影制片人。
Maybe I can use the form of film constructively to in some way make a difference.	没准我可以积极地使用电影的形式 来对某一方面做出改变。
Maybe there's a little change I can get involved in.	或许有一些我可以参与的变革。
So I started thinking about peace, and I was obviously, as I said to you, very much moved by these images, trying to make sense of that.	于是我开始思考和平， 就像我跟你们所说的，我显然 被这些图片深深感动了， 并试着去找出它们的意义。
Could I go and speak to older and wiser people who would tell me how they made sense of the things that are going on?	我能去问一些年纪更大或者更明智的人 他们会告诉我他们如何搞明白 正在发生的这些事情么？
Because it's obviously incredibly frightening.	这显然是非常可怕的
But I realized that, having been messing around with structure as an actor, that a series of sound bites in itself wasn't enough, that there needed to be a mountain to climb, there needed to be a journey that I had to take.	但是， 作为一个演员，跟着摄影组四处闲混， 我明白一系列简短的采访本身根本不够， 而是需要一座山来供攀登， 需要一段我必须踏上的旅程。
And if I took that journey, no matter whether it failed or succeeded, it would be completely irrelevant.	如果我踏上了那段旅程， 不管它是失败还是成功，都完全无所谓了。
The point was that I would have something to hook the questions of -- is humankind fundamentally evil?	关键是我可以有资本 提出这个问题——人们本质上是邪恶的么？
Is the destruction of the world inevitable? Should I have children?	世界的毁灭是不可避免的？我应该有孩子么？
Is that a responsible thing to do? Etc., etc.	那是一个关乎责任的事情么？等等。
So I was thinking about peace, and then I was thinking, well where's the starting point for peace?	所以我思考和平的问题， 然后我想，和平的起点在哪里呢？
And that was when I had the idea.	就在那时我有了这个想法，
There was no starting point for peace.	和平没有起点。
There was no day of global unity.	没有全球团结的一天。
There was no day of intercultural cooperation.	没有跨文化合作的一天。
There was no day when humanity came together, separate in all of those things and just shared it together -- that we're in this together, and that if we united and we interculturally cooperated, then that might be the key to humanity's survival.	没有一天人类可以聚到一起， 远离饥饿、破坏等所有的那些事情， 仅仅分享这一天， 我们在一起的这一天， 如果我们团结起来，并且不同文化合作起来， 或许就是人类生存的钥匙。
That might shift the level of consciousness around the fundamental issues that humanity faces -- if we did it just for a day.	或许这能改变人类面对基本问题时 产生觉悟的层次 只需我们这样做一天。
So obviously we didn't have any money.	很明显我们没有钱，
I was living at my mom's place.	我住在我妈妈家里，
And we started writing letters to everybody.	我们开始给每个人写信，
You very quickly work out what is it that you've got to do to fathom that out.	你很快就能想出你需要做的事情 并将它搞明白。
How do you create a day voted by every single head of state in the world to create the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day, the 21st of September?	你如何创造一个由世界各国首脑投票选出的一天？ 创造出史上第一个无战火、无暴力的一天， 9月21日？
And I wanted it to be the 21st of September because it was my granddad's favorite number.	我把这一天定在9月21日， 是因为这是我爷爷最喜欢的数字。
He was a prisoner of war.	他曾是战争的俘虏，
He saw the bomb go off at Nagasaki.	他看到原子弹在长崎爆炸。
It poisoned his blood. He died when I was 11.	毒气污染了他的血液。他在我11岁的时候去世了。
So he was like my hero.	他就像我的英雄。
And the reason why 21 was the number is 700 men left, 23 came back, two died on the boat and 21 hit the ground.	至于说为什么选21这个数字， 当时他们700个人去参加战争，23个回来了， 两个死在了船上，21个着陆了。
And that's why we wanted it to be the 21st of September as the date of peace.	这就是为什么我们想把9月21日做为这一天。
So we began this journey, and we launched it in 1999.	于是我们开始这个旅程， 我们在1999年发起这个活动，
And we wrote to heads of state, their ambassadors, Nobel Peace laureates, NGOs, faiths, various organizations -- literally wrote to everybody.	写信给各国首脑、大使们、 诺贝尔和平奖获得者、非政府组织、宗教机构、 各种各样的机构——几乎给所有人都写过了。
And very quickly, some letters started coming back.	很快，一些信件得到了回复。
And we started to build this case.	于是我们开始建立这个项目。
And I remember the first letter.	我记得第一封信。
One of the first letters was from the Dalai Lama.	第一批信中有一封是来自达赖喇嘛。
And of course we didn't have the money; we were playing guitars and getting the money for the stamps that we were sending out all of [this mail].	当然我们没有钱，我们弹吉他 来赚钱以买到寄出这些信件需要的邮票钱。
A letter came through from the Dalai Lama saying, "This is an amazing thing. Come and see me.	达赖喇嘛的回信说道， "这是一个有趣的事情，来见我。
I'd love to talk to you about the first ever day of peace."	我想跟你聊聊有史以来的第一个和平的一天。"
And we didn't have money for the flight.	但是我们没有钱买机票。
And I rang Sir Bob Ayling, who was CEO of BA at the time, and said, "Mate, we've got this invitation.	于是我给鲍勃·艾林爵士打电话，他那时是英国航空公司的总经理， 我跟他说，"朋友，我们收到这个邀请，
Could you give me a flight? Because we're going to go see him."	你能给我们提供机票么？因为我们要去见他。"
And of course, we went and saw him and it was amazing.	当然，后来我们见到了达赖喇嘛，的确很有趣。
And then Dr. Oscar Arias came forward.	然后奥斯卡·阿里亚斯主动跟我们联系。
And actually, let me go back to that slide, because when we launched it in 1999 -- this idea to create the first ever day of ceasefire and non-violence -- we invited thousands of people.	实际上，让我先回到那张幻灯片， 当我们在1999年发起这个活动—— 创造史上第一个无战火、无暴力的一天的时候， 我们邀请了成千上万的人。
Well not thousands -- hundreds of people, lots of people -- all the press, because we were going to try and create the first ever World Peace Day, a peace day.	嗯不是成千上万——成百上千的人，许多人—— 所有的媒体，因为我们将尝试去创造 史上第一个世界和平日，一个和平的一天。
And we invited everybody, and no press showed up.	我们邀请了所有人， 但是没有任何媒体到场。
There were 114 people there -- they were mostly my friends and family.	只有114个人出现，他们大部分都是我的朋友和家人。
And that was kind of like the launch of this thing.	这件事情的发起大概就是这样。
But it didn't matter because we were documenting, and that was the thing.	但是这没有关系，因为我们在记录，这才是关键。
For me, it was really about the process.	对我来说，真正重要的是过程，
It wasn't about the end result.	而不是最后的结果。
And that's the beautiful thing about the camera.	这就是摄像机的魅力所在。
They used to say the pen is mightier than the sword. I think the camera is.	人们通常说笔比剑更有分量。我想摄像机也是。
And just staying in the moment with it was a beautiful thing and really empowering actually.	还是说到摄像机很有魅力， 并且的确很强大。
So anyway, we began the journey.	无论如何，我们开始这个旅程了，
And here you see people like Mary Robinson, I went to see in Geneva.	这里你可以看到玛丽·鲁滨逊这样的人，我当时去日内瓦看她。
I'm cutting my hair, it's getting short and long, because every time I saw Kofi Annan, I was so worried that he thought I was a hippie that I cut it, and that was kind of what was going on.	我打算去剪剪我的头发，它变得长短不一。 因为每次我看到科菲·安南， 我都担心他会认为我是一个嬉皮士，所以我把它剪了。 那就是我当时在做的事情。
Yeah, I'm not worried about it now.	恩，所以我现在不用担心头发了。
So Mary Robinson, she said to me, "Listen, this is an idea whose time has come. This must be created."	说到玛丽·鲁滨逊， 她跟我说，"这个想法的时机已经成熟了，它必须被实现。"
Kofi Annan said, "This will be beneficial to my troops on the ground."	科菲·安南说，"这将对我的地面部队很有帮助。"
The OAU at the time, led by Salim Ahmed Salim, said, "I must get the African countries involved."	那时的非洲统一组织由萨利姆，艾哈迈德·萨利姆领导， 他说，"我必须让非洲国家参与进来。"
Dr. Oscar Arias, Nobel Peace laureate, president now of Costa Rica, said, "I'll do everything that I can."	奥斯卡·阿里亚斯博士，诺贝尔和平奖获得者， 现在是哥斯达黎加的总统。 他说，"我将做我可以做的一切。"
So I went and saw Amr Moussa at the League of Arab States.	所以我去见到了阿拉伯联盟秘书长穆萨，
I met Mandela at the Arusha peace talks, and so on and so on and so on -- while I was building the case to prove whether this idea would make sense.	我在阿鲁沙的和平谈判中见到了曼德拉， 等等，等等...... 同时我也一直在创立这个项目， 来判断这个想法 是否有意义。
And then we were listening to the people. We were documenting everywhere.	我们一直在听那些人讲各种各样的故事。我们到处记录。
76 countries in the last 12 years, I've visited.	过去12年我参观了76个国家。
And I've always spoken to women and children wherever I've gone.	无论我去哪里，我都跟当地的妇女和儿童聊天，
I've recorded 44,000 young people.	我已经采访了了44,000位年轻人，
I've recorded about 900 hours of their thoughts.	记录了900小时关于他们的想法的视频。
I'm really clear about how young people feel when you talk to them about this idea of having a starting point for their actions for a more peaceful world through their poetry, their art, their literature, their music, their sport, whatever it might be.	我真的非常了解 当你和他们谈到这个想法， 为他们建立更加和平的世界提供起点，这些年轻人是怎么想的 通过他们的诗歌、艺术、文学、 他们的音乐、运动，或者无论其他什么。
And we were listening to everybody.	我们听取每个人的观点
And it was an incredibly thing, working with the U.N.	这的确是一个不可思议的事情，与联合国合作
and working with NGOs and building this case.	与非政府组织合作，建立这个项目。
I felt that I was presenting a case on behalf of the global community to try and create this day.	我觉得我在呈现一个项目， 代表全球社区 来尝试建立这一天。
And the stronger the case and the more detailed it was, the better chance we had of creating this day.	这个项目越强大、越详细 我们创造这一天的机会就越多。
And it was this stuff, this, where I actually was in the beginning kind of thinking no matter what happened, it didn't actually matter.	就是这些，这些 实际上就是我最开始在的地方 我想无论发生什么，实际上都没关系
It didn't matter if it didn't create a day of peace.	如果它没有创造出和平的一天也没关系。
The fact is that, if I tried and it didn't work, then I could make a statement about how unwilling the global community is to unite -- until, it was in Somalia, picking up that young girl.	事实是，如果我尝试过但没有成功， 那我就可以做一个声明 关于这个全球社区是多么不想团结起来 直到我在索马里偶然遇到那个小女孩。
And this young child who'd taken about an inch and a half out of her leg with no antiseptic, and that young boy who was a child soldier, who told me he'd killed people -- he was about 12 -- these things made me realize that this was not a film that I could just stop.	这个小孩， 在没有消毒的情况下从她的腿上取出一个一英尺半的子弹 那个小男孩是一个童子军， 他告诉我他已经杀过人了——他大约12岁 这些事情使我意识到 这并不是一个我可以随时终止的电影
And that actually, at that moment something happened to me, which obviously made me go, "I'm going to document.	事实上，那一刻我想到了一些事情 这显然使我开始行动，"我要开始做记录片。
If this is the only film that I ever make, I'm going to document until this becomes a reality."	如果这是我唯一制作的电影 我将继续记录直到这变成现实。"
Because we've got to stop, we've got to do something where we unite -- separate from all the politics and religion that, as a young person, is confusing me.	因为我们需要停下来，我们需要去做一些事 在我们团结的地方 远离所有的政治和宗教 作为一个年轻人，这使我困惑。
I don't know how to get involved in that process.	我不知道如何参与到这个过程中来。
And then on the seventh of September, I was invited to New York.	之后在9月7日，我被邀请去纽约。
The Costa Rican government and the British government had put forward to the United Nations General Assembly, with 54 co-sponsors, the idea of the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day, the 21st of September, as a fixed calendar date, and it was unanimously adopted by every head of state in the world.	哥斯达黎加政府和英国政府 向联合国大会提出 和其他54个赞助方一起， 创造有史以来第一个无战火、无暴力日 并将9月21日作为一个固定的日期 这个提议被世界上各个国家首脑一致采纳通过。
Yeah, but there were hundreds of individuals, obviously, who made that a reality.	是的，但是显然成千上万的人使它成为了现实。
And thank you to all of them.	谢谢这些人们。
That was an incredible moment.	那的确是一个激动人心的时刻。
I was at the top of the General Assembly just looking down into it and seeing it happen.	我当时站在联合国大会的顶部，向下看到整个过程。
And as I mentioned, when it started, we were at the Globe, and there was no press.	正如我说过的，当它开始时， 我们在"全球"这个分会场，没有媒体在，
And now I was thinking, "Well, the press it really going to hear this story."	这时我在想，"媒体的确应该来听听这个故事"。
And suddenly, we started to institutionalize this day.	突然，我们开始让这天变成一项制度。
Kofi Annan invited me on the morning of September the 11th to do a press conference.	科菲·安南邀请我在9月11日上午 来做一个媒体发布会。
And it was 8:00 AM when I stood there.	当我站在那里的时候是早晨8点
And I was waiting for him to come down, and I knew that he was on his way.	我当时在等他下来，而且我知道他就在路上。
And obviously he never came down. The statement was never made.	但是显然他一直没有出现。那个声明也没有做成。
The world was never told there was a day of global ceasefire and nonviolence.	世界人民从来没有被告知有一个无战火、无暴力日。
And it was obviously a tragic moment for the thousands of people who lost their lives, there and then subsequently all over the world.	这显然是一个悲惨的时刻 对于那些成千上万失去生命的人来说 这些事情在全世界范围内时时刻刻都在发生，
It never happened.	这个声明从来都没有被宣布。
And I remember thinking, "This is exactly why, actually, we have to work even harder.	我还记得当时想， "这正是为什么事实上 我们需要更加努力地工作。
And we have to make this day work.	我们需要让这一天成为现实。
It's been created; nobody knows.	它已经诞生了，但是没有人知道。
But we have to continue this journey, and we have to tell people, and we have to prove it can work."	但是我们还需要继续我们的旅程， 我们需要告诉人们， 我们需要证明这一天的创造是有效的。"
And I left New York freaked, but actually empowered.	我心情低落地离开了纽约 但实际上充满了力量
And I felt inspired by the possibilities that if it did, then maybe we wouldn't see things like that.	我有一种被鼓舞的感觉 想到有可能 这个声明一旦发布，我们或许就不能看到那样的事情了。
I remember putting that film out and going to cynics.	我记得放映那个电影，并且到愤世嫉俗者中去。
I was showing the film, and I remember being in Israel and getting it absolutely slaughtered by some guys having watched the film -- that it's just a day of peace, it doesn't mean anything.	我在展示这个电影 我还记得在以色列，它被完全破坏 被一些看过这个电影的人毁坏 这只是一天的和平，并不意味着任何事情。
It's not going to work; you're not going to stop the fighting in Afghanistan; the Taliban won't listen, etc., etc.	但是这没有用，你不可能阻止阿富汗的战争 塔利班是不会听的 ，等等。
It's just symbolism.	这只是一种象征。
And that was even worse than actually what had just happened in many ways, because it couldn't not work.	那甚至更糟糕 事实上在许多方面比真正发生的事情还糟糕。 因为它没有生效。
I'd spoken in Somalia, Burundi, Gaza, the West Bank, India, Sri Lanka, Congo, wherever it was, and they'd all tell me, "If you can create a window of opportunity, we can move aid, we can vaccinate children.	我曾经在索马里，布隆迪，加沙，约旦河西岸， 印度，斯里兰卡，刚果做演讲，无论在哪， 他们都告诉我，"如果你能创造一扇机会的窗户， 我们可以提供帮助，我们可以为孩子们注射疫苗。
Children can lead their projects.	孩子们可以组织他们自己的项目，
They can unite. They can come together. If people would stop, lives will be saved."	他们可以团结起来，聚在一起。如果人们肯停下战争，就会挽救很多生命。"
That's what I'd heard.	这就是我听到的内容。
And I'd heard that from the people who really understood what conflict was about.	并且我是从那些真正懂得战争和冲突的意义的人们口中听到。
And so I went back to the United Nations.	然后我又回到了联合国。
I decided that I'd continue filming and make another movie.	我决定继续拍摄并制作另一部电影。
And I went back to the U.N. for another couple of years.	然后我又回到联合国待了两年。
We started moving around the corridors of the U.N. system, governments and NGOs, trying desperately to find somebody to come forward and have a go at it, see if we could make it possible.	我们开始在联合国系统的周围活动， 以及政府和非政府组织的周围， 拼命尝试去找到一些人 可以主动参与，并尝试一下 让我们看看这是否可能实现。
And after lots and lots of meetings obviously, I'm delighted that this man, Ahmad Fawzi, one of my heroes and mentors really, he managed to get UNICEF involved.	经过不计其数的会议之后，显然 我很中意这个人，艾哈迈德·法齐， 事实上他是我心中的英雄和导师之一， 他成功使联合国儿童基金会参与到我们的活动中来
And UNICEF, God bless them, they said, "Okay, we'll have a go."	说到联合国儿童基金会，上帝保佑他们，他们说，"好的，我们会参加"。
And then UNAMA became involved in Afghanistan.	然后联合国阿富汗援助团也在阿富汗参加了这个活动
It was historical. Could it work in Afghanistan with UNAMA and WHO and civil society, etc., etc., etc.?	这是历史性的，这能否在阿富汗成功 有了联合国阿富汗援助团和世界卫生组织 以及民间组织等等的帮助？
And I was getting it all on film and I was recording it, and I was thinking, "This is it. This is the possibility of it maybe working.	我将这些都放在电影上，并且正在记录这些 我就想，"就是它，这就是它成功的可能性。"
But even if it doesn't, at least the door is open and there's a chance."	但是即使它不成功，至少打开了一扇门， 于是就有了机会
And so I went back to London, and I went and saw this chap, Jude Law.	所以我回到了伦敦， 去找这个小伙子，裘德洛
And I saw him because he was an actor, I was an actor, I had a connection to him, because we needed to get to the press, we needed this attraction, we needed the media to be involved.	我去找他因为他是个演员，我也是个演员 我跟他有某种联系 因为我们需要去找媒体，我们需要他的号召力 我们需要媒体参与进来
Because if we start pumping it up a bit maybe more people would listen and there'd be more -- when we got into certain areas, maybe there would be more people interested.	因为如果媒体开始做更多的宣传，就会有更多的人关注 然后又会有更多 当我们进入特定地区时 可能会有更多的人对这个感兴趣
And maybe we'd be helped financially a little bit more, which had been desperately difficult.	而且没准我们会在经济上得到更多的帮助 我们的经济已经十分困难
I won't go into that.	我将不会详细说这个
So Jude said, "Okay, I'll do some statements for you."	然后裘徳说，"好吧，我为你做一些宣传"。
While I was filming these statements, he said to me, "Where are you going next?"	当我在录这些宣传视频时，他对我说，"你下一步要去哪？"
I said, "I'm going to go to Afghanistan." He said, "Really?"	我说，"我要去阿富汗"。他说，"真的么？"
And I could sort of see a little look in his eye of interest.	我可以从他眼中读到一丝兴趣。
So I said to him, "Do you want to come with me?	于是我跟他说，"你想跟我一起去么？"
It'd be really interesting if you came.	如果你要去的话一定很有意思。
It would help and bring attention.	这将会很有帮助，并且引起关注。
And that attention would help leverage the situation, as well as all of the other sides of it."	这种关注 会影响局势， 还有所有其他方面。
I think there's a number of pillars to success.	我认为有很多方法可以成功，
One is you've got to have a great idea.	一个是你有一个伟大的想法。
The other is you've got to have a constituency, you've got to have finance, and you've got to be able to raise awareness.	另一个是你有一批拥护者，你有一些经济支持， 你还可以提高大家的意识
And actually I could never raise awareness by myself, no matter what I'd achieved.	事实上凭我自己绝对不能提高大众意识，不管我做成了什么。
So these guys were absolutely crucial.	所以像裘德洛这些人绝对是非常关键的。
So he said yes, and we found ourselves in Afghanistan.	然后他同意了。 于是我们到了阿富汗。
It was a really incredible thing that when we landed there, I was talking to various people, and they were saying to me, "You've got to get everybody involved here.	当我们到达那里的时候，的确很有趣， 我跟不同的人说话，他们对我说， "你需要把这里的每个人都召集进来。
You can't just expect it to work. You have to get out and work."	你不能只想着让它自己生效，你必须走出去工作使之生效。
And we did, and we traveled around, and we spoke to elders, we spoke to doctors, we spoke to nurses, we held press conferences, we went out with soldiers, we sat down with ISAF, we sat down with NATO, we sat down with the U.K. government.	然后我们开始这样做，我们到处环游， 向老人演讲，向医生演讲，向护士演讲， 我们召开新闻发布会，跟战士一起出去 和驻阿富汗"国际安全援助部队"谈话，和北约谈话， 和英国政府谈话
I mean, we basically sat down with everybody -- in and out of schools with ministers of education, holding these press conferences, which of course, now were loaded with press, everybody was there.	我的意思是说，我们基本上和所有人都谈过了 和教育部长们在学校进进出出 并召开媒体发布会 当然，现在有媒体在场了，几乎每个人都在。
There was an interest in what was going on.	大家对这个活动有了兴趣
This amazing woman, Fatima Gailani, was absolutely instrumental in what went on as she was the spokesperson for the resistance against the Russians.	这个不可思议的女人，法蒂玛·马格拉尼，对事情的进展有很大的帮助 因为她是对抗俄罗斯的发言人。
And her Afghan network was just absolutely everywhere.	她的阿富汗网络 几乎遍及各处。
And she was really crucial in getting the message in.	而且她对于收集信息也很关键。
And then we went home. We'd sort of done it.	然后我们就回家了，我们差不多做完这件事了。
We had to wait now and see what happened.	现在我们需要等待，然后看看会发生什么。
And I got home, and I remember one of the team bringing in a letter to me from the Taliban.	于是我回家了， 我还记得队里有个人给我带了一封信， 从塔利班。
And that letter basically said, "We'll observe this day.	那封信的大概内容是，"我们将遵守这天，
We will observe this day.	我们将遵守这天。
We see it as a window of opportunity.	我们把这个视为机会之门，
And we will not engage. We're not going to engage."	我们不会参与。我们不会去参与。
And that meant that humanitarian workers wouldn't be kidnapped or killed.	这意味着人道主义工作人员 将不会被绑架或者杀戮。
And then suddenly, I obviously knew at this point, there was a chance.	然后突然，我明显感到这个时机，是一个机会。
And days later, 1.6 million children were vaccinated against polio as a consequence of everybody stopping.	几天之后， 160万儿童接种了小儿麻痹疫苗 作为人人停止战争的结果。
And like the General Assembly, obviously the most wonderful, wonderful moment.	就像联合国大会， 显然这是最棒、最好的时刻。
And so then we wrapped the film up and we put it together because we had to go back.	然后我们收好胶卷然后把它们放在一起， 因为我们需要回去，
We put it into Dari and Pashto. We put it in the local dialects.	我们把它翻译成达里语和普什图语。我们把它翻译成当地方言。
We went back to Afghanistan, because the next year was coming, and we wanted to support.	我们回到了阿富汗 应为明年要来了，我们想提供支持，
But more importantly, we wanted to go back, because these people in Afghanistan were the heroes.	但是更重要的是，我们想回去， 因为阿富汗的这些人是英雄
They were the people who believed in peace and the possibilities of it, etc., etc. -- and they made it real.	他们是那些相信和平的人， 并且相信这一天诞生的可能——而且他们将之变成现实。
And we wanted to go back and show them the film and say, "Look, you guys made this possible. And thank you very much."	我们想回去，把这个电影放给他们看， 然后说，"看，你们把这一天变成现实，非常感谢。"
And we gave the film over.	我们放映了这个电影，
Obviously it was shown, and it was amazing.	显然它很棒，
And then that year, that year, 2008, this ISAF statement from Kabul, Afghanistan, September 17th: "General Stanley McChrystal, commander of international security assistance forces in Afghanistan, announced today ISAF will not conduct offensive military operations on the 21st of September."	然后那年，2008年， 9月17日我们收到了来自来自阿富汗喀布尔驻阿富汗"国际安全援助部队"的声明： "斯坦利·麦克里斯特尔将军， 驻阿富汗国际安全援助部队最高指挥官， 今天宣布国际安全援助部队将不会实行任何侵略性的军事行动 在9月21日。"
They were saying they would stop.	他们说他们将会停止。
And then there was this other statement that came out from the U.N. Department of Security and Safety saying that, in Afghanistan, because of this work, the violence was down by 70 percent.	然后又有这一份声明， 来自国家安全局， 声明说，在阿富汗， 因为这些努力， 暴力事件减少了70%。
70 percent reduction in violence on this day at least.	至少在这天暴力事件减少了70%。
And that completely blew my mind almost more than anything.	这个完全让我震撼， 比任何事都更甚。
And I remember being stuck in New York, this time because of the volcano, which was obviously much less harmful.	我还记得上次滞留在纽约的时候，不过这次是因为火山， 显然这次更加无足轻重。
And I was there thinking about what was going on.	我当时在想事情会如何进展，
And I kept thinking about this 70 percent.	我一直在想70%这个数字，
70 percent reduction in violence -- in what everyone said was completely impossible and you couldn't do.	暴力事件减少70% 发生在每个人都说完全不可能的事情上， 你无法相信，
And that made me think that, if we can get 70 percent in Afghanistan, then surely we can get 70 percent reduction everywhere.	这使我想到，如果我们在阿富汗减少了70%的暴力事件， 那么我们毫无疑问可以在任何地方都达到这个数字。
We have to go for a global truce.	我们需要努力达到全球的休战，
We have to utilize this day of ceasefire and nonviolence and go for a global truce, go for the largest recorded cessation of hostilities, both domestically and internationally, ever recorded.	我们需要利用这无战火、无暴力的一天， 然后争取达到全球停战， 争取有史以来规模最大的停战记录， 不仅在国内，而且在国际上，有记录以来。
That's exactly what we must do.	这正是我们必须要做的事情。
And on the 21st of September this year, we're going to launch that campaign at the O2 Arena to go for that process, to try and create the largest recorded cessation of hostilities.	今年的9月21日， 我们将在千禧大棚子举办这个活动， 来争取这个过程 试着创造有史以来最大的停战记录。
And we will utilize all kinds of things -- have a dance and social media and visiting on Facebook and visit the website, sign the petition.	我们将用各种途径， 舞会，社会媒体， 以及facebook和我们的网站，签署请愿书，
And it's in the six official languages of the United Nations.	用联合国的六种官方语言来进行。
And we'll globally link with government, inter-government, non-government, education, unions, sports.	我们在国际上将与各个政府、政府间组织、 以及非政府组织、教育组织、联盟、体育组织合作，
And you can see the education box there.	并且你在那可以看到教育专席，
We've got resources at the moment in 174 countries trying to get young people to be the driving force behind the vision of that global truce.	现在我们得到了174个国家的资源 努力让年轻人成为驱动力 来推动全球停战的事业。
And obviously the life-saving is increased, the concepts help.	显然拯救生命的行动增加了，这些概念生效了。
Linking up with the Olympics -- I went and saw Seb Coe. I said, "London 2012 is about truce.	与奥林匹克合作， 我去见了勒布·安科，我说："伦敦2012奥运会应该与停战有关。
Ultimately, that's what it's about."	这是它最终的目标。
Why don't we all team up? Why don't we bring truce to life?	为什么我们不联合起来呢？为什么我们不把停战带到生活中来呢？
Why don't you support the process of the largest ever global truce?	为什么不支持有史以来最大的全球停战计划呢？
We'll make a new film about this process.	我们将为这个过程制作一个新的电影。
We'll utilize sport and football.	我们将利用运动和足球。
On the Day of Peace, there's thousands of football matches all played, from the favelas of Brazil to wherever it might be.	在那个和平的一天中，会有成千上万的足球比赛同时进行， 从巴西的贫民区到其他任何地方。
So, utilizing all of these ways to inspire individual action.	利用这些方式 来鼓励个人行动，
And ultimately, we have to try that.	最终，我们需要尝试这个，
We have to work together.	我们需要一起努力，
And when I stand here in front of all of you, and the people who will watch these things, I'm excited, on behalf of everybody I've met, that there is a possibility that our world could unite, that we could come together as one, that we could lift the level of consciousness around the fundamental issues, brought about by individuals.	当我现在站在你们所有人， 以及正在看这些事情发生的人面前， 我非常高兴，代表我见到过的每个人， 来告诉你们世界团结是有可能的， 我们可以像一家人一起聚在一起， 我们可以在人类的基本问题上提高意识， 这些问题是由我们每个人带来的。
I was with Brahimi, Ambassador Brahimi.	我曾经见过卜拉希米，卜拉希米大使，
I think he's one of the most incredible men in relation to international politics -- in Afghanistan, in Iraq.	我认为他是与国际政治有关的， 很棒的人之一 ——在阿富汗，在伊拉克
He's an amazing man.	他是一个很棒的人，
And I sat with him a few weeks ago.	几周前我跟他坐了一阵，
And I said to him, "Mr. Brahimi, is this nuts, going for a global truce?	我跟他说，"卜拉希米先生，这个争取全球停战的想法疯狂么？
Is this possible? Is it really possible that we could do this?"	有可能么？我们真的可能做到么？"
He said, "It's absolutely possible."	他说，"这绝对是可能的。"
I said, "What would you do?	我说，"您打算做什么？
Would you go to governments and lobby and use the system?"	您会去政府和议会谈，然后实行这个制度么？"
He said, "No, I'd talk to the individuals."	他说，"不，我会跟每个人去谈。"
It's all about the individuals.	这是关于每个人的，
It's all about you and me.	这是关于你和我的。
It's all about partnerships.	这是关于合作，
It's about your constituencies; it's about your businesses.	这是关于你的选举权，关于你自己的事。
Because together, by working together, I seriously think we can start to change things.	因为只有一起，我们一起努力， 我真的认为我们可以开始做出改变。
And there's a wonderful man sitting in this audience, and I don't know where he is, who said to me a few days ago -- because I did a little rehearsal -- and he said, "I've been thinking about this day and imagining it as a square with 365 squares, and one of them is white."	有一个伟大的人坐在观众席，我不知道他在哪里。 几天之前他跟我说了一些东西——因为我做了一点排练—— 他说，"我在想这天， 并把它想象成一个正方形， 有365个正方形。 其中一个是白色的。"
And it then made me think about a glass of water, which is clear.	这使我想到了一杯水，很干净的水。
If you put one drop, one drop of something, in that water, it'll change it forever.	如果你滴入一滴别的东西， 把这杯水中滴入一滴其他任何东西 它将永远改变。
By working together, we can create peace one day.	通过一起努力，将来某天我们一定可以创造出和平。
Thank you TED. Thank you.	谢谢TED。谢谢大家。
Thank you.	谢谢。
Thanks a lot.	非常感谢。
Thank you very much. Thank you.	非常感谢。谢谢。
One of my favorite parts of my job at the Gates Foundation is that I get to travel to the developing world, and I do that quite regularly.	在盖茨基金会工作， 我最喜欢的部分 就是有机会去到发展中国家。 我经常去那些国家。
And when I meet the mothers in so many of these remote places, I'm really struck by the things that we have in common.	当我去到那些偏远的地方 见到那里做了母亲的妇女们， 我着实被我们的共同之处 所深深感动。
They want what we want for our children and that is for their children to grow up successful, to be healthy, and to have a successful life.	对待孩子，她们和我们一样 望子成龙，望女成风， 希望他们健健康康，顺顺利利。
But I also see lots of poverty, and it's quite jarring, both in the scale and the scope of it.	我还看到了许多贫困的地方， 不管是贫困的程度或范围， 都让人触目惊心。
My first trip in India, I was in a person's home where they had dirt floors, no running water, no electricity, and that's really what I see all over the world.	第一次去印度时，我去到一个人家里， 他家里的地面就是黄土地，没有自来水， 没有通电， 这样的情况我在世界各地都见到过。
So in short, I'm startled by all the things that they don't have.	简单点说，看到他们连这些基本的生活条件都没有 我感到非常吃惊。
But I am surprised by one thing that they do have: Coca-Cola.	但是，让我纳闷的是他们居然都拥有： 可口可乐。
Coke is everywhere.	可口可乐无处不在。
In fact, when I travel to the developing world, Coke feels ubiquitous.	我在发展中国家的时候， 随处都能看到可口可乐。
And so when I come back from these trips, and I'm thinking about development, and I'm flying home and I'm thinking, "We're trying to deliver condoms to people or vaccinations," you know, Coke's success kind of stops and makes you wonder: how is it that they can get Coke to these far-flung places?	于是，我从这些旅行回来之后， 我就在思考发展的问题， 坐在回家的飞机上，我就一边在思考， "我们在想方设法普及安全套和各种疫苗，" 可口可乐的成功让你不得不停下来思考： 他们是怎么把可乐 送到这些穷乡僻壤的？
If they can do that, why can't governments and NGOs do the same thing?	如果他们能做到， 政府以及非政府组织岂不是也能做到吗？
And I'm not the first person to ask this question.	这个问题不是我首先提出的。
But I think, as a community, we still have a lot to learn.	但是我想，作为一个协同合作的团体， 有许多事情是值得我们学习的。
It's staggering, if you think about Coca-Cola.	谈到可口可乐，他们可真是不得了。
They sell 1.5 billion servings every single day.	他们每天能售出 十五亿瓶可乐。
That's like every man, woman and child on the planet having a serving of Coke every week.	这就相当于，地球上的每一个男人，女人，和孩子， 每周都喝掉一瓶可乐。
So why does this matter?	这当中有什么启示呢？
Well, if we're going to speed up the progress and go even faster on the set of Millennium Development Goals that we're set as a world, we need to learn from the innovators, and those innovators come from every single sector.	如果我们想加快 甚至缩短 我们千年发展目标的进程， 那么我们就要向实业家们学习了， 这些实业家们 来自各行各业。
I feel that, if we can understand what makes something like Coca-Cola ubiquitous, we can apply those lessons then for the public good.	我觉得，如果我们能悟出 可口可乐之所以无处不在的原因， 我们就能够把其中奥妙运用在公共服务上。
Coke's success is relevant, because if we can analyze it, learn from it, then we can save lives.	可口可乐的成功是值得借鉴的， 因为我们可以分析它，从中得到启发， 然后用它来拯救生命。
So that's why I took a bit of time to study Coke.	就这样，我花了一点时间来研究可口可乐。
And I think there are really three things we can take away from Coca-Cola.	我认为我们能从可口可乐身上 学到三样东西。
They take real-time data and immediately feed it back into the product.	他们对销售数据进行实时监控 并立即汇报产品的销售情况。
They tap into local entrepreneurial talent, and they do incredible marketing.	他们扶持地方企业人才， 他们的市场营销做得天衣无缝。
So let's start with the data.	我们先看一下他们的数据管理。
Now Coke has a very clear bottom line -- they report to a set of shareholders, they have to turn a profit.	可口可乐有一条非常明确的底线。 他们向一群股东汇报情况。他们必须保证利润。
So they take the data, and they use it to measure progress.	那么他们就要实时监控数据， 他们根据时实数据测量进度，
They have this very continuous feedback loop.	他们持续进行情况汇报。
They learn something, they put it back into the product, they put it back into the market.	当他们得到有用信息，他们立即对产品进行调整， 进而调整市场策略。
They have a whole team called "Knowledge and Insight."	他们有一支团队，叫做"知识与远见"。
It's a lot like other consumer companies.	它很像其它以顾客为导向的公司。
So if you're running Namibia for Coca-Cola, and you have a 107 constituencies, you know where every can versus bottle of Sprite, Fanta or Coke was sold, whether it was a corner store, a supermarket or a pushcart.	假设你是可口可乐在纳米比亚的负责人， 你在当地有107个选区， 每售出一瓶或一罐雪碧，芬达或可乐， 你都知道是从哪里出售的， 不管是在街角的杂货店， 某家超市或者某个手推车上。
So if sales start to drop, then the person can identify the problem and address the issue.	如果销售量下降， 那么负责人就会查出问题 并解决问题。
Let's contrast that for a minute to development.	我们看一下这和发展有什么异同。
In development, the evaluation comes at the very end of the project.	发展过程中所取得的价值 要到最后才能看出高低。
I've sat in a lot of those meetings, and by then, it is way too late to use the data.	我参加过很多相关的会议， 当时， 使用数据的时效早已过期。
I had somebody from an NGO once describe it to me as bowling in the dark.	我曾碰到一位非政府组织的工作人员， 他对我说，这就像是在黑暗里打保龄球，
They said, "You roll the ball, you hear some pins go down.	有人说："把球滚出去，接着球瓶应声倒下。
It's dark, you can't see which one goes down until the lights come on, and then you an see your impact."	四周很暗，只有开灯以后，你才能看见哪支瓶子倒下， 然后你才知道自己的成绩。"
Real-time data turns on the lights.	实时数据 就能把"灯"打开。
So what's the second thing that Coke's good at?	那么可口可乐第二个成功的秘诀是什么呢？
They're good at tapping into that local entrepreneurial talent.	他们善于扶植 当地企业人才。
Coke's been in Africa since 1928, but most of the time they couldn't reach the distant markets, because they had a system that was a lot like in the developed world, which was a large truck rolling down the street.	可口可乐1928年开始在非洲发展， 但是，长期以来，他们都没有成功进入偏远地区的市场， 原因是他们的运营体系基本上还是很像他们在发达国家所采用的体系， 就是把大卡车开到大街上成批地运送。
And in Africa, the remote places, it's hard to find a good road.	而在非洲的偏远地区， 连一条像样点的路都很难找到。
But Coke noticed something -- they noticed that local people were taking the product, buying it in bulk and then reselling it in these hard-to-reach places.	但是，可口可乐注意到了一点。 他们发现当地人会成批购买某种商品， 然后把这些商品分销到偏远地区。
And so they took a bit of time to learn about that.	他们花了一点时间来研究这个情况。
And they decided in 1990 that they wanted to start training the local entrepreneurs, giving them small loans.	于是他们在1990年决定 开始栽培当地的创业者， 给他们提供小额贷款。
They set them up as what they called micro-distribution centers, and those local entrepreneurs then hire sales people, who go out with bicycles and pushcarts and wheelbarrows to sell the product.	他们把这些人分组，称之为微型分销中心。 这些当地创业者接着自主聘请销售人员， 让他们骑着自行车，推着贩卖车 到处叫卖。
There are now some 3,000 of these centers employing about 15,000 people in Africa.	目前这样的分销中心数量已经达到3000多个 在非洲的雇员人数在15000人左右。
In Tanzania and Uganda, they represent 90 percent of Coke's sales.	可口可乐在坦桑尼亚和乌干达的销量 占他们在非洲总销量的 百分之九十。
Let's look at the development side.	我们现在从发展的角度来看看。
What is it that governments and NGOs can learn from Coke?	政府和非政府组织 能够从可口可乐哪里学到什么？
Governments and NGOs need to tap into that local entrepreneurial talent as well, because the locals know how to reach the very hard-to-serve places, their neighbors, and they know what motivates them to make change.	政府和非政府组织 也需要扶植地方上的企业人才， 因为当地人知道如何打入 那些偏远地区的市场，接近他们的邻居， 他们知道如何有效解决问题。
I think a great example of this is Ethiopia's new health extension program.	这里有一个很好的例子， 埃塞俄比亚的医疗普及计划。
The government noticed in Ethiopia that many of the people were so far away from a health clinic, they were over a day's travel away from a health clinic.	埃塞俄比亚政府注意到 该国许多人的住所离健康诊所很远， 他们必须走一天的路才能找到一间诊所。
So if you're in an emergency situation -- or if you're a mom about to deliver a baby -- forget it, to get to the health care center.	如果你发生了什么意外，或者你是个临产的孕妇， 就别动去健康中心的念头了，
They decided that wasn't good enough, so they went to India and studied the Indian state of Kerala that also had a system like this, and they adapted it for Ethiopia.	该国政府决定改善这种情况， 他们派人去印度喀拉拉邦 学习那里的医疗体系， 他们改良并在埃塞俄比亚推行这种体系。
And in 2003, the government of Ethiopia started this new system in their own country.	2003年，埃塞俄比亚政府 开始推行这套新医疗体系。
They trained 35,000 health extension workers to deliver care directly to the people.	他们对35000位医务人员进行培训， 让他们直接给人们提供医疗服务。
In just five years, their ratio went from one worker for every 30,000 people to one worker for every 2,500 people.	在短短五年里， 原本每30000人仅有一位医务人员的情况， 变为每2500人有一位医务人员。
Now, think about how this can change people's lives.	想想吧， 这对人们的生活是多大的改变啊。
Health extension workers can help with so many things, whether it's family planning, prenatal care, immunizations for the children, or advising the woman to get to the facility on time for an on-time delivery.	这些医务人员的贡献巨大， 计划生育，产前护理， 儿童疾病防疫， 劝告产妇及时到医院 以免耽误生产。
That is having real impact in a country like Ethiopia, and it's why you see their child mortality numbers coming down 25 percent from 2000 to 2008.	对埃塞俄比亚这样的国家而言， 这具有极其深远的影响。 它使得2000年到2008年 该国婴儿死亡率 降低了百分之二十五。
In Ethiopia, there are hundreds of thousands of children living because of this health extension worker program.	在埃塞俄比亚，全靠这些医务人员 才使得成百上千的儿童得以存活。
So what's the next step for Ethiopia?	那么埃塞俄比亚接下来的工作是什么呢？
Well, they're already starting talk about this.	他们现在已经开始商量这事了。
They're starting to talk about, "How do you have the health community workers generate their own ideas?	他们在商量："如何才能让社区卫生工作人员 更有主见呢？
How do you incent them based on the impact that they're getting out in those remote villages?"	如何让他们了解他们为那些偏远村庄所做出的贡献， 进而激励他们呢？"
That's how you tap into local entrepreneurial talent and you unlock people's potential.	你就该这样培养地方创业人才， 发掘人们的潜力。
The third component of Coke's success is marketing.	可口可乐获得成功的第三个秘诀 是市场营销战略。
Ultimately, Coke's success depends on one crucial fact and that is that people want a Coca-Cola.	可口可乐的成功 最终取决于一个不争的事实， 那就是，人人都想喝 可口可乐。
Now the reason these micro-entrepreneurs can sell or make a profit is they have to sell every single bottle in their pushcart or their wheelbarrow.	而这些个体企业家 如果想赚到钱 他们就必须卖出手推贩卖车中的每一瓶可乐。
So, they rely on Coca-Cola in terms of its marketing, and what's the secret to their marketing?	他们的市场营销战略 紧紧围绕着可口可乐这个产品。 那么他们市场营销战略的成功秘诀何在呢？
Well, it's aspirational.	这个秘诀就是主动出击。
It is associated that product with a kind of life that people want to live.	它把产品 与人们所追求的生活联系起来。
So even though it's a global company, they take a very local approach.	尽管它是个跨国公司， 可口可乐采取的是因地制宜的策略。
Coke's global campaign slogan is "Open Happiness."	他们在全球的宣传标语是 "畅爽开怀"。
But they localize it.	他们让它更具地方色彩。
And they don't just guess what makes people happy; they go to places like Latin America and they realize that happiness there is associated with family life.	他们不是凭空猜测什么能让人幸福开怀， 而是亲身去到拉丁美洲等地， 他们了解到，在那里， 幸福来自家庭生活。
And in South Africa, they associate happiness with seriti or community respect.	在南非， 幸福 来自对社区的尊重。
Now, that played itself out in the World Cup campaign.	这点在世界杯宣传期间得到了充分证明。
Let's listen to this song that Coke created for it, "Wavin' Flag" by a Somali hip hop artist.	我们来听一听这首由可口可乐公司创作的歌曲， 这首歌叫《旗帜飞扬》，由来自索马里的嘻哈歌手演唱。
K'Naan: Oh oh oh oh oh o-oh Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh Oh oh oh oh oh o-oh Oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh o-oh Give you freedom, give you fire Give you reason, take you higher See the champions take the field now You define us, make us feel proud In the streets our heads are lifted As we lose our inhibition Celebration, it's around us Every nation, all around us Melinda French Gates: It feels pretty good, right?	K'Naan演唱：噢，噢，噢，噢，噢，噢 噢，噢，噢，噢，噢，噢 噢，噢，噢，噢，噢，噢 噢，噢，噢，噢，噢，噢，噢，噢 给你自由，热情似火 给你理由，激情飞扬 看冠军们激战球场 你赋予我们意义, 让我们倍感自豪 大街小巷，我们抬头仰望 不再压抑 普天同庆 天下一家，普天同庆 美琳达. 法兰奇. 盖茨：感觉不错，对吧？
Well, they didn't stop there -- they localized it into 18 different languages.	他们不仅灌录了这一个版本， 他们这首歌翻译成了18种语言。
And it went number one on the pop chart in 17 countries.	它在十七个国家的流行歌曲排行榜上 取得冠军。
It reminds me of a song that I remember from my childhood, "I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing," that also went number one on the pop charts.	它让我想起了小时候听到的一首歌 《我想教全世界唱歌》。 这首歌也曾是冠军单曲。
Both songs have something in common: that same appeal of celebration and unity.	这两首歌有个共同点： 它们都提倡 欢庆与团结。
So how does health and development market?	那么，卫生与发展是如何进行市场营销呢？
Well, it's based on avoidance, not aspirations.	它们总是被动地躲避， 而不是主动出击。
I'm sure you've heard some of these messages.	我肯定你们都听过这些口号：
"Use a condom, don't get AIDS."	"使用安全套，远离艾滋病"。
"Wash you hands, you might not get diarrhea."	"勤洗手，防痢疾"。
It doesn't sound anything like "Wavin' Flag" to me.	这些口号听起来一点也不像《旗帜飞扬》。
And I think we make a fundamental mistake -- we make an assumption, that we think that, if people need something, we don't have to make them want that.	我认为我们犯了一个根本性错误， 我们一厢情愿地认为 人们用不着别人告诉他们， 什么才是他们需要的。
And I think that's a mistake.	我觉得这个想法不正确。
And there's some indications around the world that this is starting to change.	现在在全球范围内，这个情况似乎有所改变。
One example is sanitation.	公共卫生就是一个例子。
We know that a million and a half children die a year from diarrhea and a lot of it is because of open defecation.	我们知道每年全球大约有150万儿童 死于痢疾， 而造成这种情况的原因主要是人们随地大小便。
But there's a solution: you build a toilet.	解决方法很简单：建个厕所。
But what we're finding around the world, over and over again, is, if you build a toilet and you leave it there, it doesn't get used.	但是我们在世界各地总是看到： 人们建好一个厕所，放在那里， 却没有人来使用。
People reuse it for a slab for their home.	一些人用它来做杂物房。
They sometimes store grain in it.	他们有时候用它来储藏粮食。
I've even seen it used for a chicken coop.	我还见过有人用它来做鸡笼呢。
But what does marketing really entail that would make a sanitation solution get a result in diarrhea?	（众人笑） 那么我们如何利用市场营销 让人们学会注重公共卫生，进而消灭痢疾呢？
Well, you work with the community.	你必须发挥社区的力量。
You start to talk to them about why open defecation is something that shouldn't be done in the village, and they agree to that.	你要跟他们讲，他们不应该 在村子里随地大小便。 他们也同意这一点。
But then you take the toilet and you position it as a modern, trendy convenience.	但是你接着就要研究怎么把厕所 建成时下流行的便利设施。
One state in Northern India has gone so far as to link toilets to courtship.	印度北部的一个州工作非常到位， 他们把厕所和婚姻联系在一起，
And it works -- look at these headlines.	取得了非常好的效果。请看这些标题。
I'm not kidding.	（众人笑） 我可没开玩笑。
Women are refusing to marry men without toilets.	妇女们不嫁家里没安厕所的男人。
No loo, no "I do."	"没厕所，不过门。"
Now, it's not just a funny headline -- it's innovative. It's an innovative marketing campaign.	（众人笑） 这可不是一条搞恶搞标题啊。 它是非常有创意的。一次有创意的营销宣传。
But more importantly, it saves lives.	但更重要的是， 它拯救了生命。
Take a look at this -- this is a room full of young men and my husband, Bill.	看看这里。 这间屋里做满了年轻小伙子， 还有我先生比尔。
And can you guess what the young men are waiting for?	大家猜猜这些小伙子在等候什么？
They're waiting to be circumcised.	他们正等候着做包皮切除手术。
Can you you believe that?	你们能相信吗？
We know that circumcision reduces HIV infection by 60 percent in men.	我们知道包皮切除手术能够降低男性艾滋病病毒的感染率， 降幅可达百分之六十。
And when we first heard this result inside the Foundation, I have to admit, Bill and I were scratching our heads a little bit and we were saying, "But who's going to volunteer for this procedure?"	当我们第一次在基金会听到这个结果时， 我必须承认，我和比尔都有点摸不着头脑， 我们问："但是，谁会主动提出做这个手术呢？"
But it turns out the men do, because they're hearing from their girlfriends that they prefer it, and the men also believe it improves their sex life.	结果我们发现，男人们是愿意做手术的， 因为他们的女友 希望他们做这个手术。 他们也相信这可以提高性生活的质量。
So if we can start to understand what people really want in health and development, we can change communities and we can change whole nations.	由此可见，如果我们开始了解 在卫生和发展方面 什么才是人们真正想要的， 那么我们就能改变一个社区， 甚至改变一个国家。
Well, why is all of this so important?	那为什么这一切那么重要呢？
So let's talk about what happens when this all comes together, when you tie the three things together.	我们想想, 要是把三者成功地结合起来， 会出现什么情况？
And polio, I think, is one of the most powerful examples.	我想，小儿麻痹症是最有力的例子之一。
We've seen a 99 percent reduction in polio in 20 years.	在二十年间，小儿麻痹症病例总数下降了99％。
So if you look back to 1988, there are about 350,000 cases of polio on the planet that year.	1988年， 全球的小儿麻痹症病例 约有三十五万例。
In 2009, we're down to 1,600 cases.	而到了2009年，这个数字将到了1600例。
Well how did that happen?	是什么导致了这样的变化呢？
Let's look at a country like India.	我们以印度为例。
They have over a billion people in this country, but they have 35,000 local doctors who report paralysis, and clinicians, a huge reporting system in chemists.	这个国家的人口超过十亿， 但是他们在各地有三万五千名医生 他们会报告瘫痪情况， 和临床医师，一个由药剂师组成的庞大病情通报体系。
They have two and a half million vaccinators.	另外他们还有二百五十万名疫苗接种人员。
But let me make the story a little bit more concrete for you.	我再给大家讲一个更具体的例子。
Let me tell you the story of Shriram, an 18 month boy in Bihar, a northern state in India.	我跟大家讲史里拉姆的故事。 他是出生在印度北部的比哈尔省的 一个十八个月大的小男孩。
This year on August 8th, he felt paralysis and on the 13th, his parents took him to the doctor.	今年8月18号，他开始感到身体出现麻痹， 13号的时候，他的父母带他去看医生。
On August 14th and 15th, they took a stool sample, and by the 25th of August, it was confirmed he had Type 1 polio.	8月14号和15号，他们采集了他的大便样本， 到了8月25号， 他被确诊为第一型小儿麻痹症。
By August 30th, a genetic test was done, and we knew what strain of polio Shriram had.	到了8月30号，医生为他做了基因测试， 现在我们知道了他得的是哪种小儿麻痹病毒株。
Now it could have come from one of two places.	这种病毒株可能来自一下两个地方。
It could have come from Nepal, just to the north, across the border, or from Jharkhand, a state just to the south.	一个是印度国界以北的尼泊尔， 一个是印度南部的恰尔肯德邦。
Luckily, the genetic testing proved that, in fact, this strand came north, because, had it come from the south, it would have had a much wider impact in terms of transmission.	所幸的是，基因测试证明了 这个病毒株是从北部来的， 因为如果是从南方来的， 那么它的传播范围会更广。
So many more people would have been affected.	更多人会受到感染。
So what's the endgame?	事情发展到最后，出现了什么情况呢？
Well on September 4th, there was a huge mop-up campaign, which is what you do in polio.	到了9月14号，一场大扫荡开始了。 这是对付小儿麻痹症的常规手段。
They went out and where Shriram lives, they vaccinated two million people.	他们去到史里拉姆住的地方， 给两百万人注射了疫苗。
So in less than a month, we went from one case of paralysis to a targeted vaccination program.	就这样，在短短不到一个月的时间里， 一例麻痹病例 发展成了一整套针对性疫苗注射行动。
And I'm happy to say only one other person in that area got polio.	我很开心地告诉大家，在那个地区，只有一人患上了小儿麻痹。
That's how you keep a huge outbreak from spreading, and it shows what can happen when local people have the data in their hands; they can save lives.	只有这样 你才能阻止疾病的大规模传播， 这也表明了 当人们及时掌握了确切数据， 他们就能够拯救生命。
Now one of the challenges in polio, still, is marketing, but it might not be what you think.	对付小儿麻痹症的挑战之一，仍然是市场， 但是，它跟你想像的可能不一样。
It's not the marketing on the ground.	它跟通常意义上的市场营销有区别。
It's not telling the parents, "If you see paralysis, take your child to the doctor or get your child vaccinated."	它并不是在告诫家长们： "如果你们发现麻痹症状，马上带孩子看医生 或者给孩子注射疫苗。"
We have a problem with marketing in the donor community.	我们的问题在于如何在捐助者中做市场。
The G8 nations have been incredibly generous on polio over the last 20 years, but we're starting to have something called polio fatigue and that is that the donor nations aren't willing to fund polio any longer.	八国集团在过去20年内，慷慨地捐出了巨资， 用于治疗小儿麻痹症。 然而现在，人们开始对小儿麻痹症的捐助捐助工作感到疲乏， 也就是说，那些捐助国 不再热衷于出钱资助小儿麻痹症的治疗。
So by next summer, we're sighted to run out of money on polio.	这样，到了明年夏天，治疗这个病的经费就所剩无几了。
So we are 99 percent of the way there on this goal and we're about to run short of money.	现在地球上患小儿麻痹症的人数 已经降低了百分之九十九， 但是到了这一步，我们的钱也快花完了。
And I think that if the marketing were more aspirational, if we could focus as a community on how far we've come and how amazing it would be to eradicate this disease, we could put polio fatigue and polio behind us.	我认为如果这个市场情况更加理想， 如果我们联手把重点 放在我们的成果 以及根除这个疾病将会 多么大快人心， 这样，我们就能摆脱麻痹疲乏， 彻底消灭小儿麻痹症。
And if we could do that, we could stop vaccinating everybody, worldwide, in all of our countries for polio.	如果我们成功了， 我们就不用再给世界各国的每一个人 注射疫苗了。
And it would only be the second disease ever wiped off the face of the planet.	小儿麻痹症也就成为了第二个 从地球上彻底消失的疾病。
And we are so close.	我们就差这么一步了。
And this victory is so possible.	成功指日可待。
So if Coke's marketers came to me and asked me to define happiness, I'd say my vision of happiness is a mother holding healthy baby in her arms.	如果可口可乐的营销人员来问我， 幸福是什么， 我会说，在我看来， 幸福就是母亲把自己健康的孩子 紧紧抱在怀里的那一刻。
To me, that is deep happiness.	对于我而言，这是种由衷的幸福。
And so if we can learn lessons from the innovators in every sector, then in the future we make together, that happiness can be just as ubiquitous as Coca-Cola.	如果我们能够向各行各业的实业家们学习， 那么将来我们就能共同创造出 这样一种 无处不在的幸福， 就像可口可乐一样。
Thank you.	谢谢大家。
	（众人鼓掌）
The AlloSphere: it's a three-story metal sphere in an echo-free chamber.	全息投影球。是在一个无回声的隔间里 的三层的金属球。
Think of the AlloSphere as a large, dynamically varying digital microscope that's connected to a supercomputer.	你可以把全息投影球想象为 一个连有超级电脑的 动态数码显微镜。
20 researchers can stand on a bridge suspended inside of the sphere, and be completely immersed in their data.	20个研究员可以站在球体内 悬置的桥上，而且完全和他们的 数据融为一体。
Imagine if a team of physicists could stand inside of an atom and watch and hear electrons spin.	想象一下如果一组物理学家 可以站在原子的里面 并且可以看到、听到电子的转动。
Imagine if a group of sculptors could be inside of a lattice of atoms and sculpt with their material.	想象一下如果一组雕塑家 可以站在原子的矩阵内 并用他们的材料进行雕塑。
Imagine if a team of surgeons could fly into the brain, as though it was a world, and see tissues as landscapes, and hear blood density levels as music.	想象一下如果一组外科医生可以 在大脑里飞翔，就像在大脑是一个世界一样， 大脑组织就像世界的景观一样， 并且想听音乐一样来听血流的密度水平。
This is some of the research that you're going to see that we're undertaking at the AlloSphere.	这就是你们将要看到的一部分研究， 在全息投影球里进行的研究。
But first a little bit about this group of artists, scientists, and engineers that are working together.	但是先让我介绍一下 我们一起工作的艺术家，科学家和工程师 的小组。
I'm a composer, orchestrally-trained, and the inventor of the AlloSphere.	我是一个交响乐团的作曲家， 也是全息投影球的发明者。
With my visual artist colleagues, we map complex mathematical algorithms that unfold in time and space, visually and sonically.	和我的视觉艺术家同事，我们利用 声音与图象组建了各种 在时间与空间中拓展的数学模型。
Our scientist colleagues are finding new patterns in the information.	我们的科学家同时正在 信息里寻找新的图案。
And our engineering colleagues are making one of the largest dynamically varying computers in the world for this kind of data exploration.	而且我们的工程师同时在制造一个 世界上最大的动态计算机， 用来探索这种数据。
I'm going to fly you into five research projects in the AlloSphere that are going to take you from biological macroscopic data all the way down to electron spin.	我将要带你们游览在全息投影球 里的5个研究项目，那将带领你们从 宏观生物学数据 一直到电子的环绕。
This first project is called the AlloBrain.	这第一个项目叫做全息大脑。
And it's our attempt to quantify beauty by finding which regions of the brain are interactive while witnessing something beautiful.	这是我们试图通过 感应大脑部分区域和美丽互动时 去量化美丽。
You're flying through the cortex of my colleague's brain.	你将会飞跃我一个同事的大脑皮层。
Our narrative here is real fMRI data that's mapped visually and sonically.	我们的数据是可以 映射视觉和听觉的fMRI数据。
The brain now a world that we can fly through and interact with.	现在大脑就像一个我们可以在内飞翔和与其互动的世界。
You see 12 intelligent computer agents, the little rectangles that are flying in the brain with you.	你看到了12个智能电脑代表， 就是那些和你一起在大脑飞翔的长方形。
They're mining blood density levels.	他们在探测血液的密度水平。
And they're reporting them back to you sonically.	然后他们将通过声音给你汇报。
Higher density levels mean more activity in that point of the brain.	密度高的层次表示着 大脑里更为活跃的地方。
They're actually singing these densities to you with higher pitches mapped to higher densities.	他们实际上在用高音映射高密度 将这些密度唱给你听。
We're now going to move from real biological data to biogenerative algorithms that create artificial nature in our next artistic and scientific installation.	我们现在将要从真正的生物数据 移到可以创造人工自然的生物合成数据， 我将在下一个艺术和科学的装置中展现给你们。
In this artistic and scientific installation, biogenerative algorithms are helping us to understand self-generation and growth: very important for simulation in the nanoscaled sciences.	在这个艺术和科学的装置中，生物合成数据 将要帮我们去了解 自我衍化和生长。 这对是在纳米科学内十分重要的一个模拟。
For artists, we're making new worlds that we can uncover and explore.	对艺术家而言，我们将要去创造一个 我们可以开阔和探索的新世界。
These generative algorithms grow over time, and they interact and communicate as a swarm of insects.	就在这些自我生长数据在成长的同时， 他们就像昆虫的种群一样在互动和交流。
Our researchers are interacting with this data by injecting bacterial code, which are computer programs, that allow these creatures to grow over time.	我们的研究员通过注入细菌代码 去和这个数据互动， 那些都是允许让生物 不停成长的电脑程序。
We're going to move now from the biological and the macroscopic world, down into the atomic world, as we fly into a lattice of atoms.	我们现在要从这个生物 宏观世界领域， 深入到原子世界， 我们会飞到原子的矩阵中。
This is real AFM -- Atomic Force Microscope -- data from my colleagues in the Solid State Lighting and Energy Center.	这是真正的AFM，原子力显微镜数据 这些数据来自于我同事提取固态照明和能源中心。
They've discovered a new bond, a new material for transparent solar cells.	他们已经发现了一个新的化学键， 一种透明的太阳能电池的新材料。
We're flying through 2,000 lattice of atoms -- oxygen, hydrogen and zinc.	我们将飞跃2000个原子的矩阵 -- 氧，氢，和锌。
You view the bond in the triangle.	你看到了这个三角形的化学键。
It's four blue zinc atoms bonding with one white hydrogen atom.	这是4个蓝色锌原子 和一个氢原子绑在一起。
You see the electron flow with the streamlines we as artists have generated for the scientists.	你看到了流线型滑动的电子 这是我们作为艺术家为科学家所生成的。
This is allowing them to find the bonding nodes in any lattice of atoms.	这可以让他们在任何原子矩阵中去寻找连接的节点。
We think it makes a beautiful structural art.	我们认为这创造了美丽的结构艺术。
The sound that you're hearing are the actual emission spectrums of these atoms.	你现在听到的声音实际上是 这些原子的发射光谱。
We've mapped them into the audio domain, so they're singing to you.	我们将他们映射到一个声音的结构上。 所以他们就在和你们唱歌。
Oxygen, hydrogen and zinc have their own signature.	氧，氢和锌有他们自己的特征。
We're going to actually move even further down as we go from this lattice of atoms to one single hydrogen atom.	我们甚至将要更深入一点 从这个原子矩阵 到一个单独的氢原子。
We're working with our physicist colleagues that have given us the mathematical calculations of the n-dimensional Schrödinger equation in time.	我们和我们的物理学同事一起工作 得出含时间的三维薛定谔方程 的数学算法。
What you're seeing here right now is a superposition of an electron in the lower three orbitals of a hydrogen atom.	我们将要看到的是，在氢原子里 3个低位环绕的电子的叠加.
You're actually hearing and seeing the electron flow with the lines.	你可以听到和看到沿这些线所环绕的电子。
The white dots are the probability wave that will show you where the electron is in any given point of time and space in this particular three-orbital configuration.	白色的点是概率波 那将在任何时间和空间内的 这3个低位环绕中 告诉你电子在哪
In a minute we're going to move to a two-orbital configuration, and you're going to notice a pulsing.	一分钟后我们将要移去两个环绕。 然后你将注意到一个脉冲。
And you're going to hear an undulation between the sound.	然后你将会听到一个波形的声音。
This is actually a light emitter.	这实际上是一个光发射器。
As the sound starts to pulse and contract, our physicists can tell when a photon is going to be emitted.	就当这声音开始脉冲和对比的同时， 我们的物理学家可以知道什么时候一个光子被发射了。
They're starting to find new mathematical structures in these calculations.	他们将在这些计算中找到 新的数学结构。
And they're understanding more about quantum mathematics.	然后他们就会更加了解量子数学。
We're going to move even further down, and go to one single electron spin.	我们要继续深入， 去看看单个电子的环绕。
This will be the final project that I show you.	这将是我给你们展示的最后一个项目。
Our colleagues in the Center for Quantum Computation and Spintronics are actually measuring with their lasers decoherence in a single electron spin.	我们在量子计算研究中心和自旋电子学 的同事，通过激光去 测量电子的环绕。
We've taken this information and we've made a mathematical model out of it.	我们取得这个数据，然后 我们用它做出了一个数学模型。
You're actually seeing and hearing quantum information flow.	你将要看到和听到 量子数据的流动。
This is very important for the next step in simulating quantum computers and information technology.	这是为接下来的模拟量子电脑和信息技术 十分重要的一步。
So these brief examples that I've shown you give you an idea of the kind of work that we're doing at the University of California, Santa Barbara, to bring together, arts, science and engineering into a new age of math, science and art.	好了，这些我给你们展示的小例子 会让你们大概了解我们在圣巴巴拉加利福尼亚大学 在做什么， 是将艺术，科学 和工程学放在一起 去到一个数学，科学和艺术的新领域。
We hope that all of you will come to see the AlloSphere.	我们希望你们都能来参观全息投影球。
Inspire us to think of new ways that we can use this unique instrument that we've created at Santa Barbara.	来启发我们在圣巴巴拉所创造的这个新仪器 有什么新的用法。
Thank you very much.	十分感谢。
I essentially drag sledges for a living, so it doesn't take an awful lot to flummox me intellectually, but I'm going to read this question from an interview earlier this year: "Philosophically, does the constant supply of information steal our ability to imagine or replace our dreams of achieving?	基本可以说 我是靠拉雪橇来谋生的 所以 拼智力的话真的不用花很大力气就能赢我 不过 我还是会读一下这个问题 这是今年早些时候一个采访中的问题： "从哲学的角度来说 源源不断的资讯 是否偷走了我们想象的能力 或是取代了我们的成功梦？
After all, if it is being done somewhere by someone, and we can participate virtually, then why bother leaving the house?"	毕竟 如果某人在某地不论做什么事情 我们都能感同身受地参与的话 那么干嘛还要那么麻烦离开家呢?"
I'm usually introduced as a polar explorer.	人们通常介绍我是一名极地探险家。
I'm not sure that's the most progressive or 21st-century of job titles, but I've spent more than two percent now of my entire life living in a tent inside the Arctic Circle, so I get out of the house a fair bit.	我不确定极地探险家是否是21世纪最激进的一个职位 但是我一生中有超过2%的时间 都是在北极圈内的一个帐篷里度过的 所以可以说 我离家颇久。
And in my nature, I guess, I am a doer of things more than I am a spectator or a contemplator of things, and it's that dichotomy, the gulf between ideas and action that I'm going to try and explore briefly.	我想我的个性是属于实干派 我不能算是旁观者或沉思者一类的 我想简单和大家探讨一下的正是这种分歧 这种想法和行动之间不可逾越的鸿沟。
The pithiest answer to the question "why?"	过去的12年间 我一直不停在思考"为什么"
that's been dogging me for the last 12 years was credited certainly to this chap, the rakish-looking gentleman standing at the back, second from the left, George Lee Mallory. Many of you will know his name.	而最好的答案 应当归功于站在后排从左往右数第二位 看上去一脸轻松的这位先生 他就是乔治·李·马洛里 你们当中有很多应该知道他的名字
In 1924 he was last seen disappearing into the clouds near the summit of Mt. Everest.	1924年，他消失在 珠穆朗玛峰峰顶一片云雾中，从此踪迹全无。
He may or may not have been the first person to climb Everest, more than 30 years before Edmund Hillary.	不知道他是不是第一位攀登珠穆朗玛峰的人 比埃德蒙·希拉里早30多年。
No one knows if he got to the top. It's still a mystery.	没有人知道他是否到达山顶 这仍旧是个迷
But he was credited with coining the phrase, "Because it's there."	他人们总是把他和这句话联系在一起"因为它就在那儿"
Now I'm not actually sure that he did say that.	现在我并不确定他是否说过这句话
There's very little evidence to suggest it, but what he did say is actually far nicer, and again, I've printed this. I'm going to read it out.	并没有确凿的证据可以证明，但事实上 他却说过更棒的话 一样 我也打印出来了 念给大家听
"The first question which you will ask and which I must try to answer is this: What is the use of climbing Mt. Everest?	"你们必然会问的 也是我必须回答的 第一问题是： 攀登珠穆朗玛峰有什么用呢？
And my answer must at once be, it is no use.	而我的答案毫无疑问一定是 毫无用处。
There is not the slightest prospect of any gain whatsoever.	爬珠穆朗玛峰不会带来哪怕是一丁点儿的好处
Oh, we may learn a little about the behavior of the human body at high altitudes, and possibly medical men may turn our observation to some account for the purposes of aviation, but otherwise nothing will come of it.	恩 我们可以了解一下 人体在高海拔地区会有哪些反应 或许医学人士可以 用我们的观察结果做一些航空学上有价值的解释 但在别的方面不会有任何收获
We shall not bring back a single bit of gold or silver, and not a gem, nor any coal or iron.	我们不会带着任何一点金银宝石或煤铁回来。 我们不会带着任何一点金银宝石或煤铁回来。
We shall not find a single foot of earth that can be planted with crops to raise food. So it is no use.	我们找不到一寸土地 可种庄稼收获食物 所以真是一无是处。
If you cannot understand that there is something in man which responds to the challenge of this mountain and goes out to meet it, that the struggle is the struggle of life itself upward and forever upward, then you won't see why we go.	如果你无法理解 人就是有一种情结 要迎接山的挑战 要走出去和它相见 这种斗争 是人生永远的斗争 向上 永远向上 那么你永远都不明白我们为什么登山。
What we get from this adventure is just sheer joy, and joy, after all, is the end of life.	我们探险旅程给予我们的是纯粹的快乐 而快乐 毕竟才是生命的终极。
We don't live to eat and make money.	我们活着不是为了吃饭挣钱。
We eat and make money to be able to enjoy life.	我们吃饭挣钱是为了能够享受生活。
That is what life means, and that is what life is for."	这才是生命的意义 这才是生活的目的。"
Mallory's argument that leaving the house, embarking on these grand adventures is joyful and fun, however, doesn't tally that neatly with my own experience.	马洛里坚持离开家踏上精彩的历险旅途 会多么快乐有趣 然而 这和我的经历并非完全一致
The furthest I've ever got away from my front door was in the spring of 2004. I still don't know exactly what came over me, but my plan was to make a solo and unsupported crossing of the Arctic Ocean.	2004年的春天 我第一次离开家去了生平最远的地方 我仍旧不知道自己哪儿来的主意 不过我的计划是单枪匹马穿越北冰洋
I planned essentially to walk from the north coast of Russia to the North Pole, and then to carry on to the north coast of Canada.	我的计划是从俄罗斯北岸出发 向北极前进 然后继续向加拿大北岸前进
No one had ever done this. I was 26 at the time.	此举前所未有 而当时我仅26岁。
A lot of experts were saying it was impossible, and my mum certainly wasn't very keen on the idea.	当时很多专家都说这是不可能的 当然，我妈妈肯定不太喜欢这个主意。
The journey from a small weather station on the north coast of Siberia up to my final starting point, the edge of the pack ice, the coast of the Arctic Ocean, took about five hours, and if anyone watched fearless Felix Baumgartner going up, rather than just coming down, you'll appreciate the sense of apprehension, as I sat in a helicopter thundering north, and the sense, I think if anything, of impending doom.	从西伯利亚北部的一个气象站开始 到我最终的起点 北冰洋海岸上一块漂浮冰块的边沿 这一段小小旅程就花了整整五个小时 如果任何人看过菲利克斯·鲍姆加特纳升上太空 而不仅仅是他纵身一跳 那么就一定会有同感 正如我坐在一架轰鸣在北方高空的直升机上 那种感觉 我想一定就是末日临头的感觉
I sat there wondering what on Earth I had gotten myself into.	我坐在那儿 禁不住想究竟给自己惹了什么麻烦事儿。
There was a bit of fun, a bit of joy.	有一点点有趣 有一点点快乐。
I was 26. I remember sitting there looking down at my sledge. I had my skis ready to go, I had a satellite phone, a pump-action shotgun in case I was attacked by a polar bear.	那时我26岁。我记得坐在那里 俯视着我的雪橇。我的滑雪板已经准备就绪 我有一台卫星电话 一把连发猎步枪 以防万一被北极熊袭击。
I remember looking out of the window and seeing the second helicopter.	我还记得望出窗外 看着第二架的直升机
We were both thundering through this incredible Siberian dawn, and part of me felt a bit like a cross between Jason Bourne and Wilfred Thesiger. Part of me felt quite proud of myself, but mostly I was just utterly terrified.	在西伯利亚无比美丽的破晓前 我们一同在空中轰鸣 一部分的我感觉像是杰森·伯恩和威弗瑞·塞西格的合体 还有一部分的我对自己感到非常自豪 但最多的感觉还是彻彻底底的恐惧
And that journey lasted 10 weeks, 72 days.	这一旅程整整持续了10周，72天
I didn't see anyone else. We took this photo next to the helicopter.	一路上我没遇到任何人 我们在直升机旁边一起留了影
Beyond that, I didn't see anyone for 10 weeks.	除此之外 整整10周 我没看到任何人
The North Pole is slap bang in the middle of the sea, so I'm traveling over the frozen surface of the Arctic Ocean.	北极恰好位于大海中央 所以我的旅程穿越了北冰洋上冰冻的表面
NASA described conditions that year as the worst since records began.	美国宇航局称当时的情况是有史以来最恶劣的。
I was dragging 180 kilos of food and fuel and supplies, about 400 pounds. The average temperature for the 10 weeks was minus 35. Minus 50 was the coldest.	我拖着180公斤的食物和400磅的燃料供给 整整10周里 平均温度是零下35度 最冷的时候有零下50度
So again, there wasn't an awful lot of joy or fun to be had.	所以 再说一遍 真的没什么值得开心高兴的事儿
One of the magical things about this journey, however, is that because I'm walking over the sea, over this floating, drifting, shifting crust of ice that's floating on top of the Arctic Ocean is it's an environment that's in a constant state of flux.	然而 这段旅程最神奇的事情之一是 因为我在穿越海洋 穿越北冰洋上 随波逐流的硬邦邦的冰块 那是一个流动的世界
The ice is always moving, breaking up, drifting around, refreezing, so the scenery that I saw for nearly 3 months was unique to me. No one else will ever, could ever, possibly see the views, the vistas, that I saw for 10 weeks.	冰块不停地移动 破裂 漂流 又重新结冻 因此 在那三个月里所见到的景象 对于我来说是独一无二 任何人都将不可能目睹那种景象 任何人都不可能见到我在那十周的日子里看到的景象
And that, I guess, is probably the finest argument for leaving the house.	我想也许这就是为什么要离开家最好的理由
I can try to tell you what it was like, but you'll never know what it was like, and the more I try to explain that I felt lonely, I was the only human being in 5.4 million square-miles, it was cold, nearly minus 75 with windchill on a bad day, the more words fall short, and I'm unable to do it justice.	我可以尽量为大家形容那番景象 但你们永远都不可能真正知道 我越是想说明 就越觉得孤单 在方圆5百40万平方英里内 我是唯一一个人类 天气很冷 寒风凛凛的日子 有将近零下75度 言语越发显得贫乏 而我无法准确地形容
And it seems to me, therefore, that the doing, you know, to try to experience, to engage, to endeavor, rather than to watch and to wonder, that's where the real meat of life is to be found, the juice that we can suck out of our hours and days.	因此 对于我来说 你们知道 比起旁观想象 行动起来 努力体验 参与尝试 才能发现生命的真谛 才能从日常生活中获取动力之源
And I would add a cautionary note here, however.	然而 在这里我想提出一个警告
In my experience, there is something addictive about tasting life at the very edge of what's humanly possible.	根据我的个人经验 人们对于在极限状态下 品味人生总会有些上瘾
Now I don't just mean in the field of daft macho Edwardian style derring-do, but also in the fields of pancreatic cancer, there is something addictive about this, and in my case, I think polar expeditions are perhaps not that far removed from having a crack habit.	我所指的不仅仅是爱德华七世时期 盛行的愚蠢大男子主义一类的大胆行径 还有像罹患胰腺癌什么的 又有些什么让人欲罢不能 而我的情况是 我认为或许极地探险 与一般人的毒瘾没有很大区别。
I can't explain quite how good it is until you've tried it, but it has the capacity to burn up all the money I can get my hands on, to ruin every relationship I've ever had, so be careful what you wish for.	除非你们亲身体验过 否则我无法解释清楚那感觉有多好 它能够让我心甘情愿花光手上每一分钱 抛弃一切友情爱恋 所以 一定要慎重
Mallory postulated that there is something in man that responds to the challenge of the mountain, and I wonder if that's the case whether there's something in the challenge itself, in the endeavor, and particularly in the big, unfinished, chunky challenges that face humanity that call out to us, and in my experience that's certainly the case.	马洛里假定人类会本能地 回应高山的挑战 而我想是否是挑战本身 是努力的过程 特别是人类所面临的 巨大的 未竟的 确确实实的挑战在呼唤我们 以我的经验来说 正是如此。
There is one unfinished challenge that's been calling out to me for most of my adult life.	在我成年后的大多数岁月里 一个未竟的挑战一直在召唤我
Many of you will know the story.	你们当中有很多人会知道这个故事
This is a photo of Captain Scott and his team.	这是斯考特队长和他的团队的一张照片
Scott set out just over a hundred years ago to try to become the first person to reach the South Pole.	斯考特在100多年前出发 试图成为第一位到达南极的人类
No one knew what was there. It was utterly unmapped at the time. We knew more about the surface of the moon than we did about the heart of Antarctica.	人们对那里一无所知 从未有人他上过那片土地 我们对南极洲了解甚少 甚至不如我们对月球表面的了解。
Scott, as many of you will know, was beaten to it by Roald Amundsen and his Norwegian team, who used dogs and dogsleds. Scott's team were on foot, all five of them wearing harnesses and dragging around sledges, and they arrived at the pole to find the Norwegian flag already there, I'd imagine pretty bitter and demoralized.	如你们所知 斯考特失败了 败给了利用狗拉雪橇的罗尔德·亚孟森和他的挪威团队 斯考特和队员们靠双脚徒步前进 他们五个人背着吊带拖着雪橇徒步前进 而当他们到达南极时 却发现挪威旗帜早已捷足先登 我能够想象那是多么痛苦 令人沮丧
All five of them turned and started walking back to the coast and all five died on that return journey.	五名队员一起掉头 向海岸前行 五个人都死在了回程的路上
There is a sort of misconception nowadays that it's all been done in the fields of exploration and adventure.	今天人们有一种误解 认为探险已经没有什么新奇的
When I talk about Antarctica, people often say, "Hasn't, you know, that's interesting, hasn't that Blue Peter presenter just done it on a bike?"	当我谈起南极洲的时候 人们经常会说 "你知道么 真是有意思啊 《兰彼得》的主持人不是刚骑车去过南极洲么"
Or, "That's nice. You know, my grandmother's going on a cruise to Antarctica next year. You know.	又或是 "真棒啊 你知道我祖母打算 明年乘游轮去南极洲 你说
Is there a chance you'll see her there?"	你们有可能在那儿碰面么？"
But Scott's journey remains unfinished.	但是斯考特的旅程并未完成
No one has ever walked from the very coast of Antarctica to the South Pole and back again.	还没有人成功地徒步往返 南极洲最边际的海岸线和南极之间
It is, arguably, the most audacious endeavor of that Edwardian golden age of exploration, and it seemed to me high time, given everything we have figured out in the century since from scurvy to solar panels, that it was high time someone had a go at finishing the job.	可以说 这是探险的黄金年代 - 爱德华时代 最大胆的一次尝试 在我看来 正是时候 想想看这个世纪 我们上个世界解决那些问题 从坏血病到太阳能板 因此如果有人想尝试完成某项任务 这正是最好的时候。
So that's precisely what I'm setting out to do.	所以 这正是我准备做的事情。
This time next year, in October, I'm leading a team of three.	明年这个时候 10月份 我将带领一个三人团队
It will take us about four months to make this return journey.	我们将要花费4个月左右走完往返的路程
That's the scale. The red line is obviously halfway to the pole.	这个比例尺 很显然这条红线表明往返南极的半程。
We have to turn around and come back again.	我们必须折返 踏上返程
I'm well aware of the irony of telling you that we will be blogging and tweeting. You'll be able to live vicariously and virtually through this journey in a way that no one has ever before.	告诉大家我们将会发博客、发推特 我知道这很讽刺 你们将能够 以一种从未采用过的 间接但确实的方式 感受整段旅行
And it'll also be a four-month chance for me to finally come up with a pithy answer to the question, "Why?"	同样对于我来说 在这四个月旅程中我将有机会 找到答案 很好地回答"为什么"这个问题
And our lives today are safer and more comfortable than they have ever been. There certainly isn't much call for explorers nowadays. My career advisor at school never mentioned it as an option.	比起从前 我们今天的生活更加安全舒适 当然也就不需要很多的探险者 读书时我的职业顾问 从未说过探险者会是一个职业选择
If I wanted to know, for example, how many stars were in the Milky Way, how old those giant heads on Easter Island were, most of you could find that out right now without even standing up.	比如说 如果我想知道 银河系有多少颗星星 复活岛上的巨石像存在了多少年 你们很多人甚至不用起立 就能马上找到答案
And yet, if I've learned anything in nearly 12 years now of dragging heavy things around cold places, it is that true, real inspiration and growth only comes from adversity and from challenge, from stepping away from what's comfortable and familiar and stepping out into the unknown.	而且 要说在这12年中在寒冷地带拖曳重物 我学到了什么 那么毫无疑问 那便是 来自困难 来自挑战 来之远离熟知的一切 迈向未知的领域 所带来的鼓舞和成长
In life, we all have tempests to ride and poles to walk to, and I think metaphorically speaking, at least, we could all benefit from getting outside the house a little more often, if only we could summon up the courage.	生活中 我们都必须经历风暴 迈向极点 我想 打个比方说吧 只要我们能够鼓起勇气 多出去看看世界 那么我们就都能获益
I certainly would implore you to open the door just a little bit and take a look at what's outside.	我真得希望大家能够多踏出家门一点 看看外面的世界
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
About four years ago, the New Yorker published an article about a cache of dodo bones that was found in a pit on the island of Mauritius.	大概四年前，《纽约客》刊登了一篇文章 说在毛里求斯岛上的一个矿坑里 发现了许多埋藏的渡渡鸟遗骨
Now, the island of Mauritius is a small island off the east coast of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean, and it is the place where the dodo bird was discovered and extinguished, all within about 150 years.	毛里求斯岛位于印度洋 在马达加斯加海岸的东边 渡渡鸟在那里被发现 也在那里灭绝 这一过程仅仅用了150年的时间
Everyone was very excited about this archaeological find, because it meant that they might finally be able to assemble a single dodo skeleton.	这次考古发现让每个人欢呼雀跃 因为这意味着人们终于有机会 组装出单只渡渡鸟的完整骨架
See, while museums all over the world have dodo skeletons in their collection, nobody -- not even the actual Natural History Museum on the island of Mauritius -- has a skeleton that's made from the bones of a single dodo.	尽管世界上有很多博物馆 收藏有渡渡鸟的骨架 但即使是毛里求斯岛的自然历史博物馆 也没有一具骨架标本 是由单只渡渡鸟遗体制成的
Well, this isn't exactly true.	呃，其实这么不完全准确
The fact is, is that the British Museum had a complete specimen of a dodo in their collection up until the 18th century -- it was actually mummified, skin and all -- but in a fit of space-saving zeal, they actually cut off the head and they cut off the feet and they burned the rest in a bonfire.	事实上，在大英博物馆 直到18世纪 还收藏有一副完整的渡渡鸟标本 实际上这是个保有皮肤的完整的木乃伊标本 但是为了满足节省空间的热情 他们竟把头和脚都切下来 然后把其它的部分丢进篝火烧掉了
If you go look at their website today, they'll actually list these specimens, saying, the rest was lost in a fire.	现在如果你登陆他们的网站 会看到他们列出了这些标本 并说其它部分在火灾中丢失了
Not quite the whole truth. Anyway.	不管怎么说，跟事实很接近了
The frontispiece of this article was this photo, and I'm one of the people that thinks that Tina Brown was great for bringing photos to the New Yorker, because this photo completely rocked my world.	文章的第一页便是这张图片 我觉得蒂娜·布朗很了不起 他为《纽约客》提供了许多图片 而这张图片彻底震撼了我的世界
I became obsessed with the object -- not just the beautiful photograph itself, and the color, the shallow depth of field, the detail that's visible, the wire you can see on the beak there that the conservator used to put this skeleton together -- there's an entire story here.	我被它完全迷住了 不仅仅因为美丽的图片本身 还有它的颜色、薄薄的触摸感、可见的细节 你能看到鸟喙上的金属线 那是用来连接起整个骨架的 这整个就是一个故事
And I thought to myself, wouldn't it be great if I had my own dodo skeleton?	我自己在想 如果能有个属于自己的渡渡鸟骨架 该有多棒
I want to point out here at this point that I've spent my life obsessed by objects and the stories that they tell, and this was the very latest one.	好，此刻我想指出的一点是 我的整个人生 都在迷恋着事物，极其背后的故事 这是最近的一个
So I began looking around for -- to see if anyone sold a kit, some kind of model that I could get, and I found lots of reference material, lots of lovely pictures.	所以我开始四处寻找 看是否有人出售一套 类似模型的给我 我找到大量的参考材料和精美的图片
No dice: no dodo skeleton for me. But the damage had been done.	不行，没有找到渡渡鸟骨架。但错误已经铸成
I had saved a few hundred photos of dodo skeletons into my "Creative Projects" folder -- it's a repository for my brain, everything that I could possibly be interested in.	在我的"创造性项目"文件夹里 我已经保存了几百张渡渡鸟骨架的图片 那里就像我大脑的仓库，储藏着一切我可能感兴趣的东西
Any time I have an internet connection, there's a sluice of stuff moving into there, everything from beautiful rings to cockpit photos.	每一次连上互联网 就有无数的东西涌了进来 从漂亮的指环到驾驶室图片
The key that the Marquis du Lafayette sent to George Washington to celebrate the storming of the Bastille.	拉法叶为庆祝攻陷巴士底狱 送给华盛顿的钥匙
Russian nuclear launch key: The one on the top is the picture of the one I found on eBay; the one on the bottom is the one I made for myself, because I couldn't afford the one on eBay.	俄罗斯核武器的发射钥匙 上面那张图片是我在eBay上找到的 底下那张则是我自己制作的 因为我买不起eBay上的那张
Storm trooper costumes. Maps of Middle Earth -- that's one I hand-drew myself. There's the dodo skeleton folder.	纳粹的制服；中土世界的地图——我自己手绘的 那就是渡渡鸟骨架的文件夹
This folder has 17,000 photos -- over 20 gigabytes of information -- and it's growing constantly.	里面有17000张图片 超过20G的信息容量 而且还在不断增加
And one day, a couple of weeks later, it might have been maybe a year later, I was in the art store with my kids, and I was buying some clay tools -- we were going to have a craft day.	几个星期后的某一天，或许已经过了一年了 我和孩子走进艺术商店想买些黏土材料 我们准备过一个手工艺日
I bought some Super Sculpeys, some armature wire, some various materials.	我买了一些雕塑土，一些铁线支架和其他材料
And I looked down at this Sculpey, and I thought, maybe, yeah, maybe I could make my own dodo skull.	看着雕塑土我忽然想到 也许 也许我可以自己来做个渡渡鸟头骨
I should point out at this time -- I'm not a sculptor; I'm a hard-edged model maker.	我得先说一下——我并不是个雕塑家 我只是一个硬边模型制作者
You give me a drawing, you give me a prop to replicate, you give me a crane, scaffolding, parts from "Star Wars" -- especially parts from "Star Wars" -- I can do this stuff all day long.	给我一张图纸，就给了我复制的动力 给我一台起重机，脚手架，不给我看《星球大战》 尤其不能给我看《星球大战》 然后我就能一整天鼓捣这些玩意
It's exactly how I made my living for 15 years.	这就是我15年来如何谋生的
But you give me something like this -- my friend Mike Murnane sculpted this; it's a maquette for "Star Wars, Episode Two" -- this is not my thing -- this is something other people do -- dragons, soft things.	但如果你给我这样的东西 我的朋友迈克·默南做了这个雕塑 这是为《星球大战》第二部所做的初步模型 这不是我要做的 这是给别的人做的——龙，一些软活
However, I felt like I had looked at enough photos of dodo skulls to actually be able to understand the topology and perhaps replicate it -- I mean, it couldn't be that difficult.	但我觉得自己已经看了足够多的渡渡鸟骨架图片 实际上已经能够理解它的解剖结构 或许也可以复制一个了 我是说，这并不是那么难
So, I started looking at the best photos I could find.	我开始看能找到的最好的那些图片
I grabbed all the reference, and I found this lovely piece of reference.	我搜寻所有的参考资料 找到了这篇可爱的材料
This is someone selling this on eBay; it was clearly a woman's hand, hopefully a woman's hand.	它是某人在eBay上出售的东西 这是，明显是，很可能是一只女人的手
Assuming it was roughly the size of my wife's hand, I made some measurements of her thumb, and I scaled them out to the size of the skull.	假设它的大小和我妻子的手差不多 我测量了她的拇指，然后把数据扩展到头骨大小
I blew it up to the actual size, and I began using that, along with all the other reference that I had, comparing it to it as size reference for figuring out exactly how big the beak should be, exactly how long, etc.	扩展到实际尺寸之后 我就开始把这些数据与其他的资料进行比较 弄清楚鸟喙实际到底应该有多大 实际应该有多长，等等
And over a few hours, I eventually achieved what was actually a pretty reasonable dodo skull. And I didn't mean to continue, I -- it's kind of like, you know, you can only clean a super messy room by picking up one thing at a time; you can't think about the totality.	几小时后我终于搞清楚什么才是比较合理的渡渡鸟头骨 不过我没有继续下去 这有点像在清理一个超乱的房间时 你只能每次收拾一件东西，你不能想到所有的一切
I wasn't thinking about a dodo skeleton; I just noticed that as I finished this skull, the armature wire that I had been used to holding it up was sticking out of the back just where a spine would be.	我当时没有想到渡渡鸟骨架 我只注意到自己完成了这个头骨 用来固定的支架金属线 从原本应该是脊柱的位置穿了出来
And one of the other things I'd been interested in and obsessed with over the years is spines and skeletons, having collected a couple of hundred.	多年来我一直感兴趣并着迷的另一种东西 便是脊柱和骨架，我已经搜集了数百个
I actually understood the mechanics of vertebrae enough to kind of start to imitate them.	实际上我已经足够了解椎骨的力学机制 似乎可以模仿一下了
And so button by button, vertebrae by vertebrae, I built my way down.	接着我就一步一步，一块椎骨接着一块椎骨 自己鼓捣了起来
And actually, by the end of the day, I had a reasonable skull, a moderately good vertebrae and half of a pelvis.	最后到那天结束，我已经有了个不错的头骨 一个恰到好处的脊椎和半个骨盆
And again, I kept on going, looking for more reference, every bit of reference I could find -- drawings, beautiful photos.	我继续寻找着更多的参考资料 绘画、漂亮的图片，以及一切能找到的资料
This guy -- I love this guy! He put a dodo leg bones on a scanner with a ruler.	我爱这个家伙！他把渡渡鸟腿骨和尺子 放到了扫描器里
This is the kind of accuracy that I wanted, and I replicated every last bone and put it in.	这就是我想要的"精确" 每一块 我复制了每一块骨头然后放进去
And after about six weeks, I finished, painted, mounted my own dodo skeleton.	大概过了六个星期 我安装、上漆 完成了属于我自己的渡渡鸟骨架
You can see that I even made a museum label for it that includes a brief history of the dodo.	你能看到我还给它做了个博物馆标签 写上有关渡渡鸟历史的简短介绍
And TAP Plastics made me -- although I didn't photograph it -- a museum vitrine.	而TAP塑料公司还做了个博物馆陈列橱窗给我 我没拍下来
I don't have the room for this in my house, but I had to finish what I had started.	我屋里没空间摆放这个东西 但我必须完成我已经开始的工作
And this actually represented kind of a sea change to me.	实际上，这代表了我的某种彻底的转变
Again, like I said, my life has been about being fascinated by objects and the stories that they tell, and also making them for myself, obtaining them, appreciating them and diving into them.	如我所说，我的生活都是关于 对事物及其背后的故事着迷 还有为自己制作、获得这些东西 欣赏它们，沉浸其中
And in this folder, "Creative Projects," there are tons of projects that I'm currently working on, projects that I've already worked on, things that I might want to work on some day, and things that I may just want to find and buy and have and look at and touch.	而在这个"创造性项目"文件夹里 有许许多多我正在进行的项目 有的已经有所进展，有的将在未来某一天开始着手 还有一些东西我只是想找到、买到 看一看，摸一摸
But now there was potentially this new category of things that I could sculpt that was different, that I -- you know, I have my own R2D2, but that's -- honestly, relative to sculpting, to me, that's easy.	现在还有了一类新的东西 我能够雕塑的东西 这很不一样 我有了自己的R2D2 说实话对我来说，跟雕刻比起来，这简单多了
And so I went back and looked through my "Creative Projects" folder, and I happened across the Maltese Falcon.	因此我回头仔细审视了"创造性项目"文件夹 突然发现了《马耳他之鹰》
Now, this is funny for me: to fall in love with an object from a Hammett novel, because if it's true that the world is divided into two types of people, Chandler people and Hammett people, I am absolutely a Chandler person.	很有意思 我爱上了汉密特小说里的一件东西 因为如果它存在，世界上的人就将分为两种类型 "钱德勒"人和"汉密特"人，我绝对属于钱德勒人（钱德勒和汉密特均为美国侦探小说家）
But in this case, it's not about the author, it's not about the book or the movie or the story, it's about the object in and of itself.	不过这里与作者无关 与书或电影或故事无关 只与这件物品自身有关
And in this case, this object is -- plays on a host of levels.	在这里，这个物品 具有许多层的意义
First of all, there's the object in the world.	首先，是有这么个东西
This is the "Kniphausen Hawk."	这就是"Kniphausen Hawk"
It is a ceremonial pouring vessel made around 1700 for a Swedish Count, and it is very likely the object from which Hammett drew his inspiration for the Maltese Falcon.	一个仪式用的浇筑模型 是1700年为一位瑞典伯爵所制作的 它很可能就是汉密特 写《马耳他之鹰》的灵感来源
Then there is the fictional bird, the one that Hammett created for the book.	因此就有了汉密特为小说所创作的鸟
Built out of words, it is the engine that drives the plot of his book and also the movie, in which another object is created: a prop that has to represent the thing that Hammett created out of words, inspired by the Kniphausen Hawk, and this represents the falcon in the movie.	由词汇制成 驱动着书的内容，以及电影情节的发展 故事中还创造了另一件东西 一个代表汉密特在书中所描述物品的道具 道具代表了电影中的猎鹰，其实还是受Kniphauser Hawk的启发
And then there is this fourth level, which is a whole new object in the world: the prop made for the movie, the representative of the thing, becomes, in its own right, a whole other thing, a whole new object of desire.	然后就到了第四个层次 世界上又一个完全崭新的物品 为电影而做的这个道具 凭其本身 成为一个完全不一样的物品 一个完全的新的欲望象征
And so now it was time to do some research.	所以是时候做些研究了
I actually had done some research a few years before -- it's why the folder was there.	实际上我在几年前已经做了一部分研究 所以才有个文件夹在那里
I'd bought a replica, a really crappy replica, of the Maltese Falcon on eBay, and had downloaded enough pictures to actually have some reasonable reference.	我还在eBay上买了一个"马耳他之鹰"的复制品 一个十分蹩脚的复制品 我还下载了足够多的图片 作为适当的参考
But I discovered, in researching further, really wanting precise reference, that one of the original lead birds had been sold at Christie's in 1994, and so I contacted an antiquarian bookseller who had the original Christie's catalogue, and in it I found this magnificent picture, which included a size reference.	但在做了更多研究后 特别是需要精确参考的时候 我发现 一只原版的铅制雕塑 1994年在克里斯蒂拍卖行被拍卖了 所以我就联系了一位爱好古董的书商 他有克里斯蒂拍卖行目录的原稿 我从中找到了这张极好的图片 还附有尺寸参照
I was able to scan the picture, blow it up to exactly full size.	由此我便能扫描图片，将它放大到完整的尺寸
I found other reference. Avi [Ara] Chekmayan, a New Jersey editor, actually found this resin Maltese Falcon at a flea market in 1991, although it took him five years to authenticate this bird to the auctioneers' specifications, because there was a lot of controversy about it.	我还找到另一个参照，来自Avi [Ara] Chekmayan 新泽西的一位编辑 是他于1991年在一个跳蚤市场上 发现了这个树脂制的马耳他雄鹰 因为争议很大 他总共花了五年时间 才验明这就是 拍卖商说明书描述的真品
It was made out of resin, which wasn't a common material for movie props about the time the movie was made.	它是用树脂做的 这在当时并不是一种做电影道具的常见材料
It's funny to me that it took a while to authenticate it, because I can see it compared to this thing, and I can tell you -- it's real, it's the real thing, it's made from the exact same mold that this one is.	有意思的是，我花了好一会才鉴定它是真的 当它和这一个比较 我能保证，这的的确确是真的 都是从一个模子里出来的
In this one, because the auction was actually so controversial, Profiles in History, the auction house that sold this -- I think in 1995 for about 100,000 dollars -- they actually included -- you can see here on the bottom -- not just a front elevation, but also a side, rear and other side elevation.	这一个，因为拍卖会实际上很有争议 我记得Profiles in History拍卖行 1995年时为它拍出了10万美金 可以从底部看到 他们不仅仅提供了正面图 还提供了侧面、背面 和其他角度的视图
So now, I had all the topology I needed to replicate the Maltese Falcon.	这样，我就有了所需的结构资料 来复制马耳他之鹰
What do they do, how do you start something like that? I really don't know.	他们怎么做的，如何开始？我一无所知
So what I did was, again, like I did with the dodo skull, I blew all my reference up to full size, and then I began cutting out the negatives and using those templates as shape references.	所以这一次，我就跟做渡渡鸟头骨那样 把参照材料放大到完整尺寸 然后删去不合适的材料 再利用那些模版作为形状参考
So I took Sculpey, and I built a big block of it, and I passed it through until, you know, I got the right profiles.	接着我就用Sculpey雕塑土做了一个雏形 直到我获得正确的侧面图之后我才
And then slowly, feather by feather, detail by detail, I worked out and achieved -- working in front of the television and Super Sculpey -- here's me sitting next to my wife -- it's the only picture I took of the entire process.	慢慢地，一根羽毛一根羽毛地 逐渐逐渐做出了想要的结果 ——在电视前鼓捣雕塑土 这是我坐在妻子旁边 这也是整个过程中我拍的唯一一张照片
As I moved through, I achieved a very reasonable facsimile of the Maltese Falcon.	到最后，我终于 做成了一个很不错的马耳他之鹰复制品
But again, I am not a sculptor, and so I don't know a lot of the tricks, like, I don't know how my friend Mike gets beautiful, shiny surfaces with his Sculpey; I certainly wasn't able to get it.	但我仍然不是一个雕塑家 有好多技巧我都不知道 我不知道老友Mike做的雕塑表面为何既漂亮又光彩照人 我就是没办法做到
So, I went down to my shop, and I molded it and I cast it in resin, because in the resin, then, I could absolutely get the glass smooth finished.	所以我去到我的店里 做了个模型，用树脂铸了一个 因为用树脂做，我就绝对能进行玻璃光面精整
Now there's a lot of ways to fill and get yourself a nice smooth finish.	有很多填充和光面精整的方法
My preference is about 70 coats of this -- matte black auto primer.	我喜欢的是用这种粗糙的黑色汽车底漆 涂上大概70层
I spray it on for about three or four days, it drips to hell, but it allows me a really, really nice gentle sanding surface and I can get it glass-smooth.	我喷了三四天，油漆滴个不停 不过得到的磨砂表面相当的不错 我才可以对它做玻璃抛光
Oh, finishing up with triple-zero steel wool.	噢，最后以000#钢丝绒收尾
Now, the great thing about getting it to this point was that because in the movie, when they finally bring out the bird at the end, and they place it on the table, they actually spin it.	现在，这件非同寻常的作品就出炉了 因为在电影里，当他们最后把鸟拿出来的时候 他们把它放在桌上，旋转它
So I was able to actually screen-shot and freeze-frame to make sure.	所以我可以利用 屏幕截图和停格显示来确定
And I'm following all the light kicks on this thing and making sure that as I'm holding the light in the same position, I'm getting the same type of reflection on it -- that's the level of detail I'm going into this thing.	我按照电影里的灯光照射方式 确保用同样位置的灯光照射能取得相同的反射光 这就是我想达到的细节水平
I ended up with this: my Maltese Falcon.	最后我得到了这个：我的马耳他之鹰
And it's beautiful. And I can state with authority at this point in time, when I'd finished it, of all of the replicas out there -- and there is a few -- this is by far the most accurate representation of the original Maltese Falcon than anyone has sculpted. Now the original one, I should tell you, is sculpted by a guy named Fred Sexton.	它很漂亮。而且此时此刻我可以负责任地说 当我完成这个作品时 在所有的复制品——其实也很少——中 它是最最精确 表现马耳他之鹰原件的 而原件，我可以告诉你们 是有一个名叫弗雷德·塞克斯顿的人雕塑的
This is where it gets weird.	事情的蹊跷就在这里
Fred Sexton was a friend of this guy, George Hodel.	弗雷德·塞克斯顿是这个乔治·胡德尔的朋友
Terrifying guy -- agreed by many to be the killer of the Black Dahlia.	可怕的家伙，许多人认为他就是 "黑色大丽花"案中的杀手
Now, James Ellroy believes that Fred Sexton, the sculptor of the Maltese Falcon, killed James Elroy's mother.	现在，詹姆斯·艾尔罗伊相信 弗雷德·塞克斯顿，马耳他之鹰的雕塑者 杀死了他的母亲
I'll go you one stranger than that: In 1974, during the production of a weird comedy sequel to "The Maltese Falcon," called "The Black Bird," starring George Segal, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art had a plaster original of the Maltese Falcon -- one of the original six plasters, I think, made for the movie -- stolen out of the museum. A lot of people thought it was a publicity stunt for the movie.	还有更蹊跷的。1974年 在"马耳他之鹰"的一部怪诞喜剧续集 乔治·西格尔领衔主演的"黑鸟"的拍摄中 洛杉矶县立艺术博物馆 拥有的一个马耳他之鹰石膏原件 为电影拍摄所做的六个石膏原件之一 被偷出了博物馆。许多人认为 这只是电影方的作秀
John's Grill, which actually is seen briefly in "The Maltese Falcon," is still a viable San Francisco eatery, counted amongst its regular customers Elisha Cook, who played Wilmer Cook in the movie, and he gave them one of his original plasters of the Maltese Falcon.	John's Grill餐厅 在"马耳他之鹰"里短暂出现过 至今仍然在旧金山营业 伊莱沙·库克也曾是这家餐厅的顾客之一 他曾在影片中扮演威尔默·库克 他还将最早的"马耳他之鹰"石膏像之一 赠送给了这家餐厅
And they had it in their cabinet for about 15 years, until it got stolen in January of 2007.	在餐厅的橱柜里放了约15年之后 在2007年1月 塑像被偷走了
It would seem that the object of desire only comes into its own by disappearing repeatedly.	欲望的对象，似乎要反复消失多次之后 才能体现它本身的价值
So here I had this Falcon, and it was lovely. It looked really great, the light worked on it really well, it was better than anything that I could achieve or obtain out in the world.	我现在有了这只"猎鹰" 它很可爱，看上去真的很不错 上面的光线也很好 它比我能够实现和得到的任何东西 都要好
But there was a problem. And the problem was that: I wanted the entirety of the object, I wanted the weight behind the object.	但还有一个问题： 我想要让它变得完整 我要知道它确切的重量
This thing was made of resin and it was too light.	这个是用树脂做的，太轻了
There's this group online that I frequent.	这里有个我常常光顾的在线小组
It's a group of prop crazies just like me called the Replica Props Forum, and it's people who trade, make and travel in information about movie props.	上面都是些像我一样的道具狂人 叫道具复制品论坛，人们在上面交流 有关电影道具的制作、交易和推销等信息
And it turned out that one of the guys there, a friend of mine that I never actually met, but befriended through some prop deals, was the manager of a local foundry.	我在上面找到了一个朋友 我们从未见面，由几次道具交易成了哥们 他竟然是当地一家铸造厂的经理
He took my master Falcon pattern, he actually did lost wax casting in bronze for me, and this is the bronze I got back.	他用我的"猎鹰"原始模型 用失蜡铸造法 铸了一个青铜的给我 这就是我带回来的青铜像
And this is, after some acid etching, the one that I ended up with.	经过酸蚀处理后我最终得到了这个
And this thing, it's deeply, deeply satisfying to me.	这个结果让我非常非常满意
Here, I'm going to put it out there, later on tonight, and I want you to pick it up and handle it.	过一会我将把它放到那儿 晚些时候 我希望你们拿起它，触摸它
You want to know how obsessed I am. This project's only for me, and yet I went so far as to buy on eBay a 1941 Chinese San Francisco-based newspaper, in order so that the bird could properly be wrapped ...	你就会知道 我有多着迷。这个项目是最适合我的 我还更进一步 到eBay上买了一份1941年旧金山出的中文报纸 这样"猎鹰"才能完全像电影里一样
like it is in the movie.	包装起来
Yeah, I know!	是的，没错！
There you can see, it's weighing in at 27 and a half pounds.	看，它的重量是27.5磅
That's half the weight of my dog, Huxley.	我的狗"赫胥黎"体重的一半
But there's a problem.	不过还是有个问题
Now, here's the most recent progression of Falcons.	这是"猎鹰"系列最近的一些作品
On the far left is a piece of crap -- a replica I bought on eBay.	左边边上是我从eBay上买的一个复制品，做得很烂
There's my somewhat ruined Sculpey Falcon, because I had to get it back out of the mold. There's my first casting, there's my master and there's my bronze.	这里有我做的，有些损坏的猎鹰雕塑 因为我要把它从模子里拿出来。有我最早铸造的模型 还有我做的原始模型和青铜模型
There's a thing that happens when you mold and cast things, which is that every time you throw it into silicone and cast it in resin, you lose a little bit of volume, you lose a little bit of size.	在做模子和浇铸的时候 每一次你把它放到硅胶中，开始用树脂浇铸时 都会损失一小点体积
And when I held my bronze one up against my Sculpey one, it was shorter by three-quarters of an inch.	当我把青铜模型和雕塑土模型放在一起的时候 我发现青铜模型小了快四分之一
Yeah, no, really, this was like aah -- why didn't I remember this?	是的，真的，这就像"啊啊……" 我为什么把这给忘了？
Why didn't I start and make it bigger?	为什么一开始我不把它做大一点？
So what do I do? I figure I have two options.	那么怎么办好？我发现我有两个选择
One, I can fire a freaking laser at it, which I have already done, to do a 3D scan -- there's a 3D scan of this Falcon.	一，我可以用激光照一照 这个已经做好的模型 对这个"猎鹰"做一个3维立体扫描
I had figured out the exact amount of shrinkage I achieved going from a wax master to a bronze master and blown this up big enough to make a 3D lithography master of this, which I will polish, then I will send to the mold maker and then I will have it done in bronze. Or: There are several people who own originals, and I have been attempting to contact them and reach them, hoping that they will let me spend a few minutes in the presence of one of the real birds, maybe to take a picture, or even to pull out the hand-held laser scanner that I happen to own that fits inside a cereal box, and could maybe, without even touching their bird, I swear, get a perfect 3D scan. And I'm even willing to sign pages saying that I'll never let anyone else have it, except for me in my office, I promise.	我已经测出从蜡制模型到青铜模型 之间"缩水"的确切值 再把它放大到 足够做一个三维平版模型 擦亮之后，我可以把它交给铸模的人 然后我就能得到青铜模型 或这，或许那些拥有原件的人 我一直在试图联系他们 希望他们能让我花上几分钟 看一看其中的一个原件，或者拍个照 甚至让我用手执式激光扫描仪来扫描一下 这个小仪器刚好能放进麦片盒里 我发誓，甚至不用碰到他们的"猎鹰" 我就能得到完美的三维扫描图。我甚至想签文件 保证我绝不会让它从我的办公室流出，落入别人手里
I'll give them one if they want it.	如果他们想要，我也可以送给他们一个
And then, maybe, then I'll achieve the end of this exercise.	然后，也许，这一切就告一段落了
But really, if we're all going to be honest with ourselves, I have to admit that achieving the end of the exercise was never the point of the exercise to begin with, was it.	但事实上，如果我们诚实地面对自己 我要说，完成这一番"功课" 所得到的远不仅仅是最初想要的结果而已
Thank you.	谢谢
I'm a process engineer.	我是一个工艺工程师。
I know all about boilers and incinerators and fabric filters and cyclones and things like that, but I also have Marfan syndrome.	我知道所有锅炉和焚烧炉的一切， 包括像织物过滤器和旋风分离器一样的东西。 但是我也患有马凡氏综合征
This is an inherited disorder.	这是一种遗传性疾病
And in 1992 I participated in a genetic study and found to my horror, as you can see from the slide, that my ascending aorta was not in the normal range, the green line at the bottom.	1992年开始 我参加了一个基因研究 正向你们在幻灯片中看到的，我惊恐的发现， 我的主动脉压不在一个正常值范围内 下面的绿色区域是正常值。
Everyone in here will be between 3.2 and 3.6 cm.	在这儿的所有人都应该在3.2到3.6厘米之内
I was already up at 4.4.	而我的则在4.4。
And as you can see, my aorta dilated progressively, and I got closer and closer to the point where surgery was going to be necessary.	向你所看到的， 我的动脉扩张速度越来越快。 手术也越来越 成为必要的治疗。
The surgery on offer was pretty gruesome -- anesthetize you, open your chest, put you on an artificial heart and lung machine, drop your body temperature to about 18 centigrade, stop your heart, cut the aorta out, replace it with a plastic valve and a plastic aorta, and, most importantly, commit you to a lifetime of anticoagulation therapy, normally warfarin.	手术非常可怕 - 首先将麻醉你，打开你的腹腔 将你转换上人工心肺机器， 将你的体温降低到到18摄氏度， 停止你的心跳，切除大动脉， 用一个塑料瓣膜和大动脉取代， 而最重要的是， 你将一生都需要接受使用华法林 的抗凝治疗。
The thought of the surgery was not attractive.	采取手术的方法不是我所愿意的
The thought of the warfarin was really quite frightening.	而需要使用华法林治疗的想法 是真的很可怕。
So I said to myself, I'm an engineer, I'm in R and D, this is just a plumbing problem.	所以我对自己说，我是一名搞研究开发的工程师， 而这只是一个管道的问题。
I can do this. I can change this.	我可以这样做。我可以更改此设置。
So I set out to change the entire treatment for aortic dilation.	所以我开始 改变整个治疗 主动脉扩张的方法
The project aim is really quite simple.	项目的目的是很简单的。
The only real problem with the ascending aorta in people with Marfan syndrome is it lacks some tensile strength.	马凡氏综合征的人的 升主动脉的真正问题 是它缺乏一些拉力。
So the possibility exists to simply externally wrap the pipe.	所以简单的在管道的外层包装 的可能性是存在的。
And it would remain stable and operate quite happily.	这样它便会保持稳定并且很好的发挥作用。
If your high-pressure hose pipe, or your high-pressure hydraulic line, bulges a little, you just wrap some tape around the outside of it.	如果您的高压软管 或您的高压液压线，变涨一点， 您只需要在它的外部缠绕一些胶带。
It really is that simple in concept, though not in execution.	概念上来说，它真的就这么简单， 但实行上却恰恰相反。
The great advantage of an external support for me was that I could retain all of my own bits, all of my own endothelium and valves, and not need any anticoagulation therapy.	外部支持对我来说最大的好处是 我可以保留所有我自己的身体部分， 所有我自己的内皮细胞和瓣膜， 并且不需要任何的抗凝治疗。
So where do we start?	所以我们从哪里开始？
Well this is a sagittal slice through me.	好，这是我的矢状切片。
You could see in the middle that device, that little structure, squeezing out.	你可以看到在中间 有个很小的结构在往外压挤。
Now that's a left ventricle pushing blood up through the aortic valve -- you can see two of the leaflets of the aortic valve working there -- up into the ascending aorta.	这是左心室 通过主动脉阀挤压血液 - 你能看到两个的主动脉瓣的工作 — 到升大动脉。
And it's that part, the ascending aorta, which dilates and ultimately bursts, which, of course, is fatal.	就是这一部分升大动脉 不停的扩张并最终破裂， 造成致命的后果。
We started by organizing image acquisition from magnetic resonance imaging machines and CT imaging machines from which to make a model of the patient's aorta.	我们开始通过核磁共振成像仪器和 电脑断层扫描来 采集图像， 为病人的制造主动脉的 模型。
This is a model of my aorta.	这是一个我的主动脉模型。
I've got a real one in my pocket, if anyone would like to look at it and play with it.	我也带着一个真模型， 如果任何人想看看它，玩玩它。
You can see, it's quite a complex structure.	你可以看到，它是相当复杂的结构。
It has a funny trilobal shape at the bottom, which contains the aortic valve.	在它的底部有一个有趣的三叶形形状， 其中包含主动脉瓣。
It then comes back into a round form and then tapers and curves off.	接着它慢慢变成了圆形， 然后逐渐变细。
So it's quite a difficult structure to produce.	所以它是一个相当难生产的 结构。
This, like I say, is a CAD model of me, and this is one of the later CAD models.	就像我说的，这是一个 CAD 模型， 这是之后众多的CAD模型之一
We went through an iterative process of producing better and better models.	我们经历了一个生产更好和更好的模型 的迭代过程。
When we produced that model we turn it into a solid plastic model, as you can see, using a rapid prototyping technique, another engineering technique.	当我们制作这个模型的时候 我们把它变成一个实体的塑料模型 正如您所看到的 利用快速成型技术， 另一种工程技术。
We then use that former to manufacture a perfectly bespoke porous textile mesh, which takes the shape of the former and perfectly fits the aorta.	然后，我们使用它 来制造完全订制的 以之前的模型为形状的 完全适合大动脉的 多孔纺织网。
So this is absolutely personalized medicine at its best really.	因此，这是完完全全的 最好的个体化医疗。
Every patient we do has an absolutely bespoke implant.	我们的每一个病患 都有一个完全為他们订制的植入物。
Once you've made it, the installation's quite easy.	一旦你做好它，安装很容易。
John Pepper, bless his heart, professor of cardiothoracic surgery -- never done it before in his life -- he put the first one in, didn't like it, took it out, put the second one in.	John Pepper， 胸心外科教授 - 从未做过这个手术 - 他植入第一个后，不喜欢它，把它取出来，又植入了第二个。
Happy, away I went.	然后我开心的离开了。
Four and a half hours on the table and everything was done.	手术桌上的四个半小时，所有事情都完成了。
So the surgical implantation actually was the easiest part.	所以外科植入其实是最容易的部分。
If you compare our new treatment to the existing alternative, the so-called composite aortic root graft, there are one of two startling comparisons, which I'm sure will be clear to all of you.	如果你比较一下我们的疗程和现有的替代方法， 所谓的复合主动脉根部移植物， 会有两个令人吃惊的比较， 明显的展现在各位眼前。
Two hours to install one of our devices compared to six hours for the existing treatment.	植入我们的设备需要两个小时 而现有的治疗需要 六个小时。
The existing treatment requires, as I've said, the heart and lung bypass machine and it requires a total body cooling.	正如我说的，现有的替代治疗需要 人工心肺机器， 并需要完全的人体冷却。
We don't need any of that; we work on a beating heart.	我们不需要任何这些设备；我们在治疗一个跳动的心脏
He opens you up, he accesses the aorta while your heart is beating, all at the right temperature.	他打开你的胸腔，在适当的温度下， 在你心脏跳动的时候接触到你的主动脉。
No breaking into your circulatory system.	你的血液循环系统也不需要被打断。
So it really is great.	所以真的非常好。
But for me, absolutely the best point is there is no anticoagulation therapy required.	但对我来说，最好的一点 是完全不需要抗凝治疗。
I don't take any drugs at all other than recreational ones that I would choose to take.	我根本不需要使用任何药品， 除了我选择吃的消遣性的药物。
And in fact, if you speak to people who are on long-term warfarin, it is a serious compromise to your quality of life.	事实上，如果你和那些在长期进行华凡林治疗的人交谈， 它对你的生活质量有着严重的损害。
And even worse, it inevitably foreshortens your life.	更糟的是， 它不可避免的缩短你的生命。
Likewise, if you have the artificial valve option, you're committed to antibiotic therapy whenever you have any intrusive medical treatment at all.	同样，如果您选择了人工瓣膜， 当你接受任何有侵犯性的治疗的时候， 你都需要使用抗生素疗程。
Even trips to the dentist require that you take antibiotics, in case you get an internal infection on the valve.	甚至于连去牙医都需要使用抗生素， 来预防任何的瓣膜的内部感染。
Again, I don't have any of that, so I'm entirely free.	再次，我完全没有以上的担忧，所以我是完全自由的。
My aorta is fixed, I haven't got to worry about it, which is a rebirth for me.	我的主动脉已经治好了，我不需要担心它 这对我来说是一个重生。
Back to the theme of the presentation: In multidisciplinary research, how on earth does a process engineer used to working with boilers end up producing a medical device which transforms his own life?	回到演讲的主题： 在多学科研究领域内， 一个习惯与锅炉打交道的工艺工程师是怎样 建造了一个医疗设备 并改变了自己的生命？
Well the answer to that is a multidisciplinary team.	答案就是一个跨领域的团队。
This is a list of the core team.	这是核心团队的名单。
And as you can see, there are not only two principal technical disciplines there, medicine and engineering, but also there are various specialists from within those two disciplines.	就像你所看到的， 它不仅仅包括了两个大的领域， 医学和工程学， 也包括了这两种领域中的 各种专业人员。
John Pepper there was the cardiac surgeon who did the actual work on me, but everyone else there had to contribute one way or another.	John Pepper 是给我做手术的心脏外科医生。 而这里面的每个人都做出了一定的贡献。
Raad Mohiaddin, medical radiologist: We had to get good quality images from which to make the CAD model.	Raad Mohiaddin，医疗放射学家： 我们需要获取高质量的图像 来制作 CAD 模型。
Warren Thornton, who still does all our CAD models for us, had to write a bespoke piece of CAD code to produce this model from this really rather difficult input data set.	沃伦 · 桑顿仍为我们做我们所有的 CAD 模型。 它需要为每一个预订的模型 从比较生涩的输入数据库中 写一个特殊的 CAD 编码。
There are some barriers to this though. There are some problems with it.	尽管这样还有一些困难和问题存在。
Jargon is a big one.	行业术语是个大问题。
I would think no one in this room understands those four first jargon points there.	我认为在这个房间里没有人懂 这四个行业术语的意思。
The engineers amongst you will recognize rapid prototyping and CAD.	你们之中的工程师 知道快速成型和 CAD。
The medics amongst you, if there are any, will recognize the first two.	你们当中的医生可能认识前两个。
But there will be nobody else in this room that understands all of those four words.	但这个房间里没有任何一个人 知道全部四个。
Taking the jargon out was very important to ensure that everyone in the team understood exactly what was meant when a particular phrase was used.	将行业术语剔除 对确保团队中的每个人都能 在一个词条被使用时 明白它的意思，非常重要。
Our disciplinary conventions were funny as well.	我们行业习惯的不同也非常的有趣。
We took a lot of horizontal slice images through me, produced those slices and then used those to build a CAD model.	我们做了很多我的水平切片图像 生产这些切片，然后使用它们建立 CAD 模型。
And the very first CAD model we made, the surgeons were playing with the plastic model, couldn't quite figure it out.	我们的第一个CAD模型 外科医生们在把玩了这个塑料模型后， 都搞不明白是怎么回事。
And then we realized that it was actually a mirror image of the real aorta.	然后我们意识到这是实际上一个真正的主动脉 的镜像图像。
And it was a mirror image because in the real world we always look down on plans, plans of houses or streets or maps.	它是一个镜像图像， 因为在现实世界中我们总是向下看规划图， 房子或街道的规划图。
In the medical world they look up at plans.	在医学中我们向上看
So the horizontal images were all an inversion.	所以那些水平图像都反转了。
So one needs to be careful with disciplinary conventions.	所以每个人都需要注意行业的习惯。
Everyone needs to understand what is assumed and what is not assumed.	每个人都需要了解 什么是假设了的，什么没有被假设。
Institutional barriers were another serious headache in the project.	制度性障碍 在项目中是另一个让人头痛的问题。
The Brompton Hospital was taken over by Imperial College's School of Medicine, and there are some seriously bad relationship problems between the two organizations.	布朗普顿医院被 帝国学院医学院的医学院接管了， 而两个组织之间 有一些严重的关系问题。
I was working with Imperial and the Brompton, and this generated some serious problems with the project, really problems that shouldn't exist.	我在和帝国和布朗普顿工作， 这就产生了一些严重的问题， 真的不应该存在的问题。
Research and ethics committee: If you want to do anything new in surgery, you have to get a license from your local research and ethics.	研究与伦理委员会： 如果你想做任何新的手术， 你要从您的本地研究和伦理获得许可证。
I'm sure it's the same in Poland.	我确信在波兰也是这样的。
There will be some form of equivalent, which licenses new types of surgery.	会有某些相同的模式， 颁发新的的手术许可证。
We didn't only have the bureaucratic problems associated with that, was also had professional jealousies.	我们不是仅遇到了官僚主义的问题 也遭到了一些同行的猜忌。
There were people on the research and ethics committee who really didn't want to see John Pepper succeed again, because he's so successful.	有些研究和伦理委员会的人 不希望看到John Pepper再次成功， 因为他已经是如此的成功，
And they made extra problems for us.	并且他们为我们设置更多的问题和麻烦。
Bureaucratic problems: Ultimately when you have a new treatment you have to have a guidance note going out for all of the hospitals in the country.	官僚主义的问题： 当你有一个新的治疗方法的时候 你必须给国内的每一个医院寄出一个 指导书。
In the U.K. we have the National Institute for Clinical Excellence, NICE.	在英国，我们有国家卫生医疗质量标准署，NICE。
You'll have an equivalent in Poland, no doubt.	毫无疑问，波兰也有相似的机构。
We had to get past the NICE problem.	我们必须在NICE过关。
We now have a great clinical guidance out on the Net.	我们现在在网上有一个很好的临床指导书。
So any of the hospitals interested can come along, read the NICE report get in touch with us and then get doing it themselves.	所以任何有兴趣的医院 可以来看NICE的报告 与我们取得联系，然后可以自己运行。
Funding barriers: Another big area to be concerned with.	资金壁垒： 要关注的另一个重要领域。
A big problem with understanding one of those perspectives: When we first approached one of the big U.K. charitable organizations that funds this kind of stuff, what they were looking at was essentially an engineering proposal.	理解这些情况的时候，一个大的问题是 当我们第一次接触 一个大的英国提供这类资助的慈善机构 他们看到的从根本上是一个工程提议。
They didn't understand it; they were doctors, they were next to God.	他们都不懂它 ；他们是医生，他们就在上帝的身边。
It must be rubbish. They binned it.	所以它一定是垃圾。他们把它丢弃一边。
So in the end I went to private investors and I just gave up on it.	所以最终我去找了私人投资者 并且我放弃了那些机构。
But most R and D is going to be institutionally funded, by the Polish Academy of Sciences or the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council or whatever, and you need to get past those people.	但大多数的 研究开发项目的资金来源都是 由波兰科学院 在工程和物理研究院的机构提供， 和您需要获得这些人的同意。
Jargon is a huge problem when you're trying to work across disciplines, because in an engineering world, we all understand CAD and R.P. -- not in the medical world.	当你尝试着跨领域工作时，行业术语是一个大问题。 因为在工程世界里， 我们都了解 CAD 和 R.P.— 而医疗世界并不明白。
I suppose ultimately the funding bureaucrats have really got to get their act together.	我想最终筹资的官僚们一定要开始有所作为，
They've really got to start talking to each other, and they've got to exercise a bit of imagination, if that's not too much to ask -- which it probably is.	开始和其他的机构沟通， 开始用一点想象力， 如果这不是过分的要求 — 虽然它很可能是。
I've coined a phrase "obstructive conservatism."	我已经创造了一个短语"阻碍性保守"。
So many people in the medical world don't want to change, particularly not when some jumped-up engineer has come along with the answer.	医学世界里很多人都不想改变， 尤其是当一个工程师莫名其妙的跳出来并带来了答案。
They don't want to change.	他们不想改变。
They simply want to do whatever they've done before.	他们只是想做他们之前做过的。
And in fact, there are many surgeons in the U.K.	事实上，有很多外科医生在英国
still waiting for one of our patients to have some sort of episode, so that they can say, "Ah, I told you that was no good."	仍在等待我们的病人中的一两个 发生一些小插曲 这样，他们可以说，"啊，我告诉你那不好。"
We've actually got 30 patients.	我们在 7 年半的时间里，
I'm at seven and a half years.	有过30个病人。
We've got 90 post-op patient years between us, and we haven't had a single problem.	所有的病患手术后加起来的时间有90年， 但我们没有发生过一个问题。
And still, there are people in the U.K. saying, "Yeah, that external aortic root, yeah, it'll never work, you know."	尽管如此，仍然在英国有人说 "哦，那是外部的主动脉支撑啊，是啊，它永远不会有效。"
It really is a problem. It really is a problem.	这真的是一个问题。这真的是一个问题。
I'm sure everyone in this room has come across arrogance amongst medics, doctors, surgeons at some point.	我相信在这个房间里的每个人在某种程度上都遇到过 医务、 医生、 外科医生的傲慢。
The middle point is simply the way that the doctors protect themselves.	这仅仅是 医生们保护自己的方法。
"Yeah, well of course, I'm looking after my patient."	"是啊，当然，我在保护我的病人。"
I think it's not good, but there you are, that's my view.	我认为这不好，但你是这样的，这就是我的看法。
Egos, of course, again, a huge problem If you're working in a multidisciplinary team, you've got to give your guys the benefit of the doubt.	自负，当然，这也是一个巨大的问题。 当你在一个跨领域的团队里面工作， 你必须对你的同事疑中留情，
You've got to express support for them.	必须要对他们表示支持。
Tom Treasure, professor of cardiothoracic surgery: incredible guy.	Tom Treasure，心胸外科教授： 一个令人难以置信的家伙。
Dead easy to give him respect.	非常容易给他尊重。
Him giving me respect? Slightly different.	淡他给我尊重呢？这就稍有不同了。
That's all the bad news.	这些都是不好的消息。
The good news is the benefits are stonkingly huge.	好消息便是它的益处非常的大。
Translate that one. I bet they can't.	翻译这个。我敢打赌他们不能。
When you have a group of people who have had a different professional training, a different professional experience, they not only have a different knowledge base, but they have a different perspective on everything.	当你有一群 得到了不同专业训练和职业经验的人， 他们不仅有不同的知识储备， 也对每个事物都有不同的观点。
And if you can bring those guys together and you can get them talking and understanding each other, the results can be spectacular.	如果你可以把这些人聚集在一起 并让他们开始交流和理解对方， 结果将会是非常棒的。
You can find novel solutions, really novel solutions, that have never been looked at before very, very quickly and easily.	您可以找到新的解决方案，真正的新解决方案， 那种从没有看到过的， 非常、 非常的容易和快。
You can shortcut huge amounts of work simply by using the extended knowledge base you have.	只需你能使用这些延长的知识库， 你可以减少很多的工作。
And as a result, it's an entirely different use of the technology and the knowledge around you.	结果便是 一个完全不同的使用科技和 你周围的知识的方式。
The result of all this is that you can get incredibly quick progress on incredibly small budgets.	这一切的结果便是 你可以以很小的预算 获得很快的进展。
I'm so embarrassed at how cheap it was to get from my idea to me being implanted that I'm not prepared to tell you what it cost.	我对我为从我的想法变成现实 花了那么少的钱而感到羞愧， 所以我并不打算告诉你们我花了多少。
Because I suspect there are absolutely standard surgical treatments probably in the USA which cost more for a one-off patient than the cost of us getting from my dream to my reality.	因为我怀疑， 在美国有着完全 常规性的手术疗程， 在一个病患上的成本， 都比我从我的梦想 到现实 花费的更多。
That's all I want to say, and I've got three minutes left.	这就是我想说的，我还剩三分钟。
So Heather's going to like me.	所以 Heather 会喜欢我。
If you have any questions, please come up and talk to me later on.	如果您有任何疑问，请之后和我联系。
It would be a pleasure to speak with you. Many thanks.	能和你们交流时我荣幸。非常感谢！
I live and work from Tokyo, Japan.	我在日本东京居住并工作
And I specialize in human behavioral research, and applying what we learn to think about the future in different ways, and to design for that future.	我致力于人类行为学的调研 然后运用我们所学到的知识用不同的方式去看待未来 并设计未来
And you know, to be honest, I've been doing this for seven years, and I haven't got a clue what the future is going to be like.	坦诚的说，我已经做这行7年了 我仍不知道未来将会是怎样
But I've got a pretty good idea how people will behave when they get there.	但我大致了解 人们的行为到了那时候将会是怎样
This is my office. It's out there.	这就是我的办公室，到处都是
It's not in the lab, and it's increasingly in places like India, China, Brazil, Africa.	并不是坐在一个实验室里 大多数都在印度，中国，巴西和非洲
We live on a planet -- 6.3 billion people.	我们共同生活在这个星球上 -63亿人类
About three billion people, by the end of this year, will have cellular connectivity.	其中大约30亿人，在今年年底 会接受到手机信号
And it'll take about another two years to connect the next billion after that.	再过2年将会有另10亿人加入他们
And I mention this because, if we want to design for that future, we need to figure out what those people are about.	我要提到这点是因为 如果我们要为未来做设计 我们需要了解他们是怎么想的
And that's, kind of, where I see what my job is and what our team's job is.	这也是我工作的重点 也是我们团队的
Our research often starts with a very simple question.	我们的调研一般由一个比较简单的问题开场
So I'll give you an example. What do you carry?	比如： 你今天随身带了什么
If you think of everything in your life that you own, when you walk out that door, what do you consider to take with you?	你马上会想到你所拥有的所有财物 当你出门的时候 你会想今天我要带什么
When you're looking around, what do you consider?	你边找边想些什么
Of that stuff, what do you carry?	我到底要带那些东西呢
And of that stuff, what do you actually use?	那些你随身带的东西你会真正的用到呢
So this is interesting to us, because the conscious and subconscious decision process implies that the stuff that you do take with you and end up using has some kind of spiritual, emotional or functional value.	这是我们感兴趣的地方 因为这是意识和潜意识做决定的一个过程 仔细想想如果你每天随身带的东西最后都派上了用场 那么在精神上，感情上和功能上都有一定的价值
And to put it really bluntly, you know, people are willing to pay for stuff that has value, right?	坦率的说 我们很舍得买一些有价值的东西 不是吗
So I've probably done about five years' research looking at what people carry.	所以关于这个我做了5年的调研 观察人们到底随身带些什么
I go in people's bags. I look in people's pockets, purses.	我会翻别人的包，摸他们的口袋，还有皮夹
I go in their homes. And we do this worldwide, and we follow them around town with video cameras.	我甚至会到世界各地拜访他们的家 然后带着摄像机和他们一起到城里转儿
It's kind of like stalking with permission.	这好像是经过批准的跟踪一样
And we do all this -- and to go back to the original question, what do people carry?	我们做这些只是为了找到问题的答案 人们到底随身带些什么？
And it turns out that people carry a lot of stuff.	我们发现我们随身带很多东西
OK, that's fair enough.	这个没什么错
But if you ask people what the three most important things that they carry are -- across cultures and across gender and across contexts -- most people will say keys, money and, if they own one, a mobile phone.	但当你问及哪3样东西是你每天必须要带的话 穿越文化，性别，上下文 大多数人会说钥匙，钱 手机，如果他们有的话
And I'm not saying this is a good thing, but this is a thing, right?	我没说这是个好东西，但是这是个东西是吧？
I mean, I couldn't take your phones off you if I wanted to.	我不能从你手中抢掉你的手机，扔掉
You'd probably kick me out, or something.	如果我那样做的话，你大概会打我一顿
OK, it might seem like an obvious thing for someone who works for a mobile phone company to ask.	或者我这个举动有点太明显了 更不用说我是一个手机品牌的在职人员
But really, the question is, why? Right?	但是这是为什么呢
So why are these things so important in our lives?	为什么这些物品对我们那么重要呢
And it turns out, from our research, that it boils down to survival -- survival for us and survival for our loved ones.	我们的调研表明，这些物品是可以拯救你生命的 拯救我们自己和我们爱的人
So, keys provide an access to shelter and warmth -- transport as well, in the U.S. increasingly.	我们需要一把开启自家大门的钥匙 启动车，也需要钥匙。 在美国，这个数据在日益增长
Money is useful for buying food, sustenance, among all its other uses.	钱为了生计可以买食物 当然它还有很多别的用途
And a mobile phone, it turns out, is a great recovery tool.	手机其实是一个恢复工具
If you prefer this kind of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, those three objects are very good at supporting the lowest rungs in Maslow's hierarchy of needs.	如果你对马斯洛需求层次理论感兴趣的话 这3个物品都能给人很好的辅助 但他们是马斯洛需求层次理论中排名最后的几位
Yes, they do a whole bunch of other stuff, but they're very good at this.	当然他们也有其他别的很多功能 但是他们的辅助功能特别突出
And in particular, it's the mobile phone's ability to allow people to transcend space and time.	特别是对手机而言 让人们能够超越空间与时间
And what I mean by that is, you know, you can transcend space by simply making a voice call, right?	我的意思是 你可以通过打个电话来超越距离感
And you can transcend time by sending a message at your convenience, and someone else can pick it up at their convenience.	或者你也可以根据你个人的情况而定发一个短消息打破时间的约束 接受者也可以在他们想看的时候再看
And this is fairly universally appreciated, it turns out, which is why we have three billion plus people who have been connected.	大众都普遍偏爱这种交流方式 这也是为什么全球有30亿人用手机建立联系的原因
And they value that connectivity.	他们也为此链接增加了价值
But actually, you can do this kind of stuff with PCs.	其实，电脑也可以做这事儿
And you can do them with phone kiosks.	用电话亭也行
And the mobile phone, in addition, is both personal -- and so it also gives you a degree of privacy -- and it's convenient.	但是手机它的好处是它非常个性化 给你足够的隐私并且很方便
You don't need to ask permission from anyone, you can just go ahead and do it, right?	你不用得到任何人的允许 你就直接一个电话过去了不是吗？
However, for these things to help us survive, it depends on them being carried.	这些物品能否救我们的命 那还要看你是不是随身带了它们
But -- and it's a pretty big but -- we forget.	虽然重要，但是我们有时候会忘记
We're human, that's what we do. It's one of our features.	我们是人，我们会忘记事情，也算是我们自带功能的一种
I think, quite a nice feature.	我觉得这个功能挺好
So we forget, but we're also adaptable, and we adapt to situations around us pretty well.	我们会忘记，但是我们适应力很强 适应周遭的各种情况
And so we have these strategies to remember, and one of them was mentioned yesterday.	当然还有一些方法需要铭记 昨天还提到过一个
And it's, quite simply, the point of reflection.	比较简单， 反射效应
And that's that moment when you're walking out of a space, and you turn around, and quite often you tap your pockets.	当你要出门的时候 你会转身摸一下自己的口袋
Even women who keep stuff in their bags tap their pockets.	就连那些把东西放在皮包的女性朋友们也会做同样的动作
And you turn around, and you look back into the space, and some people talk aloud.	你会转身朝屋里看 有些人边看还边叫
And pretty much everyone does it at some point.	每个人时不时的都会这样
OK, the next thing is -- most of you, if you have a stable home life, and what I mean is that you don't travel all the time, and always in hotels, but most people have what we call a center of gravity.	再有，大多数人都有一个比较稳定的生活 我指的是，他们不用全世界到处跑或总是呆在酒店里 每个人都有一个放东西的地方我们称做"重点位置"
And a center of gravity is where you keep these objects.	这个"重心位置"是你专放这些物品的地方
And these things don't stay in the center of gravity, but over time, they gravitate there.	刚开始他们可能不是放在那里的 但随着时间的推移，他们就在那里扎根了
It's where you expect to find stuff.	比如你要找某些东西的时候
And in fact, when you're turning around, and you're looking inside the house, and you're looking for this stuff, this is where you look first, right?	其实 当你转过身 朝屋里看的时候 你就在找这些物品 这些会是你马上去找的地方不是吗
OK, so when we did this research, we found the absolutely, 100 percent, guaranteed way to never forget anything ever, ever again.	所以我们做了调研 我们找到了一种100%保证你 再也不会忘记东西的方法
And that is, quite simply, to have nothing to remember.	其实很简单，什么都不要记就可以了，就不会忘记了
OK, now, that sounds like something you get on a Chinese fortune cookie, right?	笑 这听上去是不是有点好笑就是中国的幸运饼？
But is, in fact, about the art of delegation.	但其实这是一种分配工作的艺术
And from a design perspective, it's about understanding what you can delegate to technology and what you can delegate to other people.	从一个设计的角度来讲 关于自身对科技掌握的一种的理解 你能分配那些任务给其他人
And it turns out, delegation -- if you want it to be -- can be the solution for pretty much everything, apart from things like bodily functions, going to the toilet.	如果你愿意你就可以分配任务给其他人 这几乎是解决所有的事的方法 除了生理的一些反应，比如去厕所
You can't ask someone to do that on your behalf.	别人不能替你做这些事
And apart from things like entertainment, you wouldn't pay for someone to go to the cinema for you and have fun on your behalf, or, at least, not yet.	再有就是娱乐项目 你不会叫个人替你去电影院看电影 至少目前还不会
Maybe sometime in the future, we will.	可能将来我们会这么做
So, let me give you an example of delegation in practice, right.	现在让我给你一个现实的分配任务的例子
So this is -- probably the thing I'm most passionate about is the research that we've been doing on illiteracy and how people who are illiterate communicate.	这是可能我最热衷做的事 一个我们对文盲的研究 他们是用什么来进行交流的
So, the U.N. estimated -- this is 2004 figures -- that there are almost 800 million people who can't read and write, worldwide.	2004年U.N的统计数据表明 全球有大约有8亿是文盲，不会读也不会写
So, we've been conducting a lot of research.	所以我们做了很多调查
And one of the things we were looking at is -- if you can't read and write, if you want to communicate over distances, you need to be able to identify the person that you want to communicate with.	引起我们注意的是 如果你不会读或写 但是你想通过距离来进行交流 你必须具有能力识别 那个与你做交流的人
It could be a phone number, it could be an e-mail address, it could be a postal address.	可以是一个电话号码，或者电子邮箱的地址 邮政地址
Simple question: if you can't read and write, how do you manage your contact information?	很简单的一个问题，如果你不能读或写 你怎么搞定自己的联系方式呢？
And the fact is that millions of people do it.	事实证明很多人都可以应付的来
Just from a design perspective, we didn't really understand how they did it, and so that's just one small example of the kind of research that we were doing.	从设计的角度讲， 我们不能理解他们是怎么做到的 这只是举个小小的例子 我们是怎么做我们的调研的
And it turns out that illiterate people are masters of delegation.	其实文盲他们是委派任务的高手
So they delegate that part of the task process to other people, the stuff that they can't do themselves.	他们把一个任务中的几个部分委派给其他人 那些他们自己做不了的事
Let me give you another example of delegation.	举个例子
This one's a little bit more sophisticated, and this is from a study that we did in Uganda about how people who are sharing devices, use those devices.	这个例子比较复杂 这是我们在乌干达做的一个调查 关于那里的人们共享并共用一个设备
Sente is a word in Uganda that means money.	Senta是乌干达的一个土话，意思是 钱
It has a second meaning, which is to send money as airtime. OK?	它还有一个意思就是把话费当钱寄回去
And it works like this.	是这样运作的
So let's say, June, you're in a village, rural village.	比如果，June你在一个边远的村庄
I'm in Kampala and I'm the wage earner.	我是在坎帕拉的一个工薪阶层
I'm sending money back, and it works like this.	我要寄钱回去
So, in your village, there's one person in the village with a phone, and that's the phone kiosk operator.	在你的村庄有个人他有个手机 他是共用电话亭的接线员
And it's quite likely that they'd have a quite simple mobile phone as a phone kiosk.	在共用电话亭应该有一个标准功能的手机
So what I do is, I buy a prepaid card like this.	所以我会去买一个充值卡
And instead of using that money to top up my own phone, I call up the local village operator.	我不把钱充在我自己的电话里 我打电话给你村子的接线员
And I read out that number to them, and they use it to top up their phone.	把充值卡上的密码告诉他，让他充到他的手机里
So, they're topping up the value from Kampala, and it's now being topped up in the village.	也就是说他从坎帕拉冲了值 里面的金额冲到了你村庄一名手机用户的账户上
You take a 10 or 20 percent commission, and then you -- the kiosk operator takes 10 or 20 percent commission, and passes the rest over to you in cash.	你拿10-20%的佣金 共用电话亭接线员扣掉10-20%的佣金 然后再把多下来的钱以现金的方式给你
OK, there's two things I like about this.	所以整个过程中有两点我特别喜欢
So the first is, it turns anyone who has access to a mobile phone -- anyone who has a mobile phone -- essentially into an ATM machine.	第一，任何能接触到手机的人 或拥有手机的人 其实就是个自动取款机
It brings rudimentary banking services to places where there's no banking infrastructure.	这带动了这个地方最根本的银行服务 虽然没有银行业的基础设施
And even if they could have access to the banking infrastructure, they wouldn't necessarily be considered viable customers, because they're not wealthy enough to have bank accounts.	即使他们可以有机会接触到银行 银行也不会把他们视为有价值的用户 因为他们还不具备拥有银行账户的资格
There's a second thing I like about this.	第二点我喜欢的地方
And that is that despite all the resources at my disposal, and despite all our kind of apparent sophistication, I know I could never have designed something as elegant and as totally in tune with the local conditions as this. OK?	抛开我多年调研经验 和我们对事物的审美观 我无法设计与此一样优雅 并与当地的实际情况完全相符的一个系统
And, yes, there are things like Grameen Bank and micro-lending.	是的，我们还有格莱珉银行和小金额贷款
But the difference between this and that is, there's no central authority trying to control this.	他们的区别是 这个系统是没有权威机构的束缚
This is just street-up innovation.	完全是街头的创新
So, it turns out the street is a never-ending source of inspiration for us.	所以 大街小巷永远是个 灵感的源头
And OK, if you break one of these things here, you return it to the carrier.	如果弄坏这个东西，你归还给出售者
They'll give you a new one.	他们会给你一个新的
They'll probably give you three new ones, right?	他们应该会给你3个新的不是吗？
I mean, that's buy three, get one free. That kind of thing.	不是买三送一吗
If you go on the streets of India and China, you see this kind of stuff.	如果你到印度或中国的街头 ，你会看到诸如此类的生意
And this is where they take the stuff that breaks, and they fix it, and they put it back into circulation.	他们回收损坏的东西 然后修理后再循环出售
This is from a workbench in Jilin City, in China, and you can see people taking down a phone and putting it back together.	在中国吉林的一个修理铺 你可以看到他们把一个手机拆开 然后再组装起来
They reverse-engineer manuals.	用手工破解这些手机的系统
This is a kind of hacker's manual, and it's written in Chinese and English.	这是一种黑客的破解方法 被印制成中文和英文
They also write them in Hindi.	甚至北印度语
You can subscribe to these.	你也可以订购一份
There are training institutes where they're churning out people for fixing these things as well.	他们还设立专门的培训班机构，一窝蜂的培训人 怎么修理机子
But what I like about this is, it boils down to someone on the street with a small, flat surface, a screwdriver, a toothbrush for cleaning the contact heads -- because they often get dust on the contact heads -- and knowledge.	我比较欣赏其中的这点 最后这个生意在街边一个很小很矮的店铺落脚 一把螺丝刀，一把牙刷用来清理话筒部位 因为话筒总是粘灰比较多的地方
And it's all about the social network of the knowledge, floating around.	这个是关于怎样传播这种知识，让它在整个社区传播
And I like this because it challenges the way that we design stuff, and build stuff, and potentially distribute stuff.	我喜欢这点的原因是因为这是对我们产品设计的一种挑战 和制造产品与潜在产品投放点的挑战
It challenges the norms.	也是对标准规格的一种挑战
OK, for me the street just raises so many different questions.	对我来说，大街小巷会出现层出不穷的问题
Like, this is Viagra that I bought from a backstreet sex shop in China.	比如，我在中国的小巷中的一个性保健店买了这瓶伟哥
And China is a country where you get a lot of fakes.	在中国，你可以买到不少假货
And I know what you're asking -- did I test it?	我知道你会问，难道你自己试用过了
I'm not going to answer that, OK.	我不会回答你这个问题好吧
But I look at something like this, and I consider the implications of trust and confidence in the purchase process.	我从另一个角度来观察，我觉得这个一个关于 购买过程中信任与自信的一条线索
And we look at this and we think, well, how does that apply, for example, for the design of -- the lessons from this -- apply to the design of online services, future services in these markets?	我们怎样把它运用到生活中呢 比如说， 做一个构想--从中我们学到的 怎样在这些市场策划线上服务与今后的新增服务
This is a pair of underpants from -- -- from Tibet.	这是一条 笑 从西藏买来的内裤
And I look at something like this, and honestly, you know, why would someone design underpants with a pocket, right?	我看着它，自问 为什么有人会在内裤上做个口袋？
And I look at something like this and it makes me question, if we were to take all the functionality in things like this, and redistribute them around the body in some kind of personal area network, how would we prioritize where to put stuff?	这个让我深思 如果我们考虑把这个东西的所有功能 分布到我们身体的各个部位 就好象是身体各个部位的联络网 那我们怎么决定那个口袋放什么呢？
And yes, this is quite trivial, but actually the lessons from this can apply to that kind of personal area networks.	是，这看上去是有些繁琐，但这个可以联系到 身体各个部位的联络网
And what you see here is a couple of phone numbers written above the shack in rural Uganda.	你们看到的是几个电话号码 在边缘乌干达门框上写着的电话号码
This doesn't have house numbers. This has phone numbers.	这些不是门牌而是电话号码
So what does it mean when people's identity is mobile?	难道别人用手机来辨认谁是谁？
When those extra three billion people's identity is mobile, it isn't fixed?	难道3亿人真的用手机号码来认人吗
Your notion of identity is out-of-date already, OK, for those extra three billion people.	那你对认人的概念也太落伍了 对这额外的3亿人来说
This is how it's shifting.	这就是演变的过程
And then I go to this picture here, which is the one that I started with.	再来看一些照片，我拍的第一张照片
And this is from Delhi.	这是是印度的德里
It's from a study we did into illiteracy, and it's a guy in a teashop.	我们在那里做了对文盲的调研 这是个茶店里的伙计
You can see the chai being poured in the background.	你可以从后面看到他已经倒好的茶
And he's a, you know, incredibly poor teashop worker, on the lowest rungs in the society.	他是这个极其贫穷的茶点力的一个伙计 生活在社会最底层
And he, somehow, has the appreciation of the values of Livestrong.	但他对 耐克的LiveStrong手环的价值有着独特的钟爱
And it's not necessarily the same values, but some kind of values of Livestrong, to actually go out and purchase them, and actually display them.	这不是我们所说的金钱价值 而是这个手环所代表的意义的价值 所以他去购买这些手环 并展示他们
For me, this kind of personifies this connected world, where everything is intertwined, and the dots are -- it's all about the dots joining together.	对我来说这样的人格魅力可以带动整个世界 每样事物都交错在一起，个体 个体与个体联系到一起
OK, the title of this presentation is "Connections and Consequences," and it's really a kind of summary of five years of trying to figure out what it's going to be like when everyone on the planet has the ability to transcend space and time in a personal and convenient manner, right?	这个演讲的标题为 "联系与结论" 这是我五年探索工作的总结 关于在这个星球上生存的每一个人 都有能力来穿越空间与时间 在一个私人与便捷的方式下 不是吗
When everyone's connected.	当每个人都被联系到一起
And there are four things.	其中有四个元素
So, the first thing is the immediacy of ideas, the speed at which ideas go around.	第一是构想的直观性 构想酝酿的速度
And I know TED is about big ideas, but actually, the benchmark for a big idea is changing.	我知道TED以出大构想为名 但是大构想的基准正在改变
If you want a big idea, you need to embrace everyone on the planet, that's the first thing.	如果你想要出大构想，你必须先接受这个星球上的每一个人 这个是第一步
The second thing is the immediacy of objects.	第二是目标的直观性
And what I mean by that is, as these become smaller, as the functionality that you can access through this becomes greater -- things like banking, identity -- these things quite simply move very quickly around the world.	当这些东西变的越来越小 他们的功能却越来越强大 比如银行业，身份认证 这些元素顺其自然的在全球传播的很快
And so the speed of the adoption of things is just going to become that much more rapid, in a way that we just totally cannot conceive, when you get it to 6.3 billion and the growth in the world's population.	所以对事物的接受速度 也将变的越来越快 我们无法用语言来表达 当全世界有63亿人的时候 全球的人口在增长
The next thing is that, however we design this stuff -- carefully design this stuff -- the street will take it, and will figure out ways to innovate, as long as it meets base needs -- the ability to transcend space and time, for example.	无论我们怎样想方设法设计这东西 非常小心谨慎的设计这东西 在街头混的小子们会把它弄个明白再做出新的创新 只要能与他们基本需求温和 举个例子，拥有穿越时间与空间的本领
And it will innovate in ways that we cannot anticipate.	他们会做我们根本无法预期的不同创新
In ways that, despite our resources, they can do it better than us.	他们甚至能比我们做的更好
That's my feeling.	至少我是这样认为的
And if we're smart, we'll look at this stuff that's going on, and we'll figure out a way to enable it to inform and infuse both what we design and how we design.	如果我们够聪明的话，我们会关注这些东西的发展趋势 我们会找到一种方法来使其发扬光大 关于设计和怎样设计
And the last thing is that -- actually, the direction of the conversation.	最后一点， 就是这次谈论的重点
With another three billion people connected, they want to be part of the conversation.	当3亿人被联系到了一起 他们也希望参与交流
And I think our relevance and TED's relevance is really about embracing that and learning how to listen, essentially.	我认为我们和TED的主旨 最根本是接受并学习怎么去聆听
And we need to learn how to listen.	我们需要学习怎么聆听
So thank you very, very much.	所以非常非常感谢你们今天的参与
	鼓掌
I write about food. I write about cooking.	我的工作是写关于食物和烹饪的文章。
I take it quite seriously, but I'm here to talk about something that's become very important to me in the last year or two.	我是很严肃地对待这些事情。 但是现在我要谈论 一些在近一两年里对我们愈发重要的事情。
It is about food, but it's not about cooking, per se.	这就是饮食的问题，但本质上并不和烹饪相关。
I'm going to start with this picture of a beautiful cow.	下面我先展示一幅美丽的母牛的照片。
I'm not a vegetarian -- this is the old Nixon line, right?	我并不是一名素食主义者 -- 这听上去象以前尼克松的用语，不是吗？
But I still think that this -- -- may be this year's version of this.	但我仍然认为这 -- -- 可能是现在的情况。
Now, that is only a little bit hyperbolic.	只不过现在有一点夸张罢了。
And why do I say it?	为什么我要说这些呢？
Because only once before has the fate of individual people and the fate of all of humanity been so intertwined.	因为以前只发生过一次，每个人的命运 和整个人类的命运 如此紧密得连结在一起。
There was the bomb, and there's now.	过去是原子弹，现在也同样发生了这种情况。
And where we go from here is going to determine not only the quality and the length of our individual lives, but whether, if we could see the Earth a century from now, we'd recognize it.	并且我们现在要决定的 不仅是我们每个人的生活质量和寿命， 而且是如果在一个世纪之后评价现在的世界， 我们是否会认同它。
It's a holocaust of a different kind, and hiding under our desks isn't going to help.	这是一次不同类型的浩劫， 并且逃避并不能解决任何问题。
Start with the notion that global warming is not only real, but dangerous.	现在全球变暖的现象 不仅是真实的，而且非常危险。
Since every scientist in the world now believes this, and even President Bush has seen the light, or pretends to, we can take this is a given.	因为现在世界上的每一个科学家都对此表示认同， 并且甚至布什总统都表示认同，当然也可能是假装的， 我们必须要面对它。
Then hear this, please.	现在请听我说。
After energy production, livestock is the second-highest contributor to atmosphere-altering gases.	畜牧业是仅次于能源生产的第二大制造者 产生改变气候的气体。
Nearly one-fifth of all greenhouse gas is generated by livestock production -- more than transportation.	将近全部温室气体的五分之一 是由畜牧业产生的 -- 比运输业还要多。
Now, you can make all the jokes you want about cow farts, but methane is 20 times more poisonous than CO2, and it's not just methane.	现在你可以尽情地开有关牛屁的玩笑， 但是甲烷的有害程度是二氧化碳的20倍， 而且这其中不仅仅包含甲烷。
Livestock is also one of the biggest culprits in land degradation, air and water pollution, water shortages and loss of biodiversity.	畜牧业又是造成土地退化的最大元凶 空气和水污染，水资源短缺和生物多样性遭到破坏。
There's more.	诸如此类还有许多。
Like half the antibiotics in this country are not administered to people, but to animals.	这就好像国家里一半的抗生素 不是用在人类，而是用在动物身上的。
But lists like this become kind of numbing, so let me just say this: if you're a progressive, if you're driving a Prius, or you're shopping green, or you're looking for organic, you should probably be a semi-vegetarian.	但是我罗列的这些听上去只是一串数字，所以让我换一种方式表述， 如果你比较激进， 如果你驾驶一辆普锐斯，或者你购买绿色食品， 或者购买有机食品， 你很可能是一个半素食主义者。
Now, I'm no more anti-cattle than I am anti-atom, but it's all in the way we use these things.	现在我对母牛的反对比对原子弹的反对更甚， 但是这正是我们现在的生活方式。
There's another piece of the puzzle, which Ann Cooper talked about beautifully yesterday, and one you already know.	这里还有另外一个问题 安·库珀在昨天曾经很完美得探讨过， 并且你们已经知道了。
There's no question, none, that so-called lifestyle diseases -- diabetes, heart disease, stroke, some cancers -- are diseases that are far more prevalent here than anywhere in the rest of the world.	这些都不是问题 -- 都不是 -- 所谓的生活方式的疾病 -- 糖尿病，心脏病，中风，几种癌症 -- 这些疾病在这里是过分普遍了 相比世界的其他地方。
And that's the direct result of eating a Western diet.	这就是西方饮食的直接结果。
Our demand for meat, dairy and refined carbohydrates -- the world consumes one billion cans or bottles of Coke a day -- our demand for these things, not our need, our want, drives us to consume way more calories than are good for us.	我们对于肉类，乳类和纯净的碳水化合物的需求 -- 世界平均每天消耗十亿听或瓶的可乐 -- 我们对于这些东西的需求并不是必须的，而是我们想要的 -- 使我们消耗了比最佳摄入量更多的卡路里。
And those calories are in foods that cause, not prevent, disease.	这些在食品中的卡路里导致，而不是预防疾病。
Now global warming was unforeseen.	现在世界变暖还是不可预期的。
We didn't know that pollution did more than cause bad visibility.	我们尚不确定污染除了降低能见度外还有其他什么危害。
Maybe a few lung diseases here and there, but, you know, that's not such a big deal.	可能会在这里或那里造成更多的肺癌， 但是你知道，这并不是一件很严重的事情。
The current health crisis, however, is a little more the work of the evil empire.	可是，现在的健康问题， 比一个邪恶帝国的危害还要严重。
We were told, we were assured, that the more meat and dairy and poultry we ate, the healthier we'd be.	我们被告知，并且我们确信， 随着我们摄入更多的肉类，乳类和家禽类食品， 我们会变得更健康。
No. Overconsumption of animals, and of course, junk food, is the problem, along with our paltry consumption of plants.	这是错的。对动物的过度食用，当然还有垃圾食品， 是问题所在，还有对植物类食品的摄入不足。
Now, there's no time to get into the benefits of eating plants here, but the evidence is that plants -- and I want to make this clear -- it's not the ingredients in plants, it's the plants.	现在不是讨论使用植物是否有益的时候了， 有证据表明植物 -- 我想要强调一下 -- 而不是植物中的成分，是植物本身。
It's not the beta-carotene, it's the carrot.	不是β胡萝卜素，而是胡萝卜本身。
The evidence is very clear that plants promote health.	有充分证据表明植物可以改善健康状况。
This evidence is overwhelming at this point.	现在这种证据更加充分。
You eat more plants, you eat less other stuff, you live longer.	你吃了更多的植物，更少的其他食物，你就会更加长寿。
Not bad.	这算是个还不错的消息。
But back to animals and junk food.	但是问题又回到了动物和垃圾食品。
What do they have in common?	它们有什么共同的特点呢？
One: we don't need either of them for health.	第一：我们为了健康并不需要它们中的任何一个。
We don't need animal products, and we certainly don't need white bread or Coke.	我们并不需要动物制品， 而且我们完全不需要白面包或可乐。
Two: both have been marketed heavily, creating unnatural demand.	第二：这两种东西都在被广泛地推销， 导致了不正常的需求。
We're not born craving Whoppers or Skittles.	我们并不是在耸人听闻。
Three: their production has been supported by government agencies at the expense of a more health- and Earth-friendly diet.	第三：它们的制造得到政府部门的支持， 但是以少食用更健康和环保的食品为代价。
Now, let's imagine a parallel.	现在打个比方。
Let's pretend that our government supported an oil-based economy, while discouraging more sustainable forms of energy, knowing all the while that the result would be pollution, war and rising costs.	如果我们的政府支持一个石油公司 同时反对更加可持续发展的能源， 并且知道这将导致 污染，战争和更高的成本。
Incredible, isn't it?	很不可思议，不是吗？
Yet they do that.	但是现在他们正在这样做。
And they do this here. It's the same deal.	他们对食品也是如此。这是同样的事情。
The sad thing is, when it comes to diet, is that even when well-intentioned Feds try to do right by us, they fail.	坏消息是，对于饮食问题， 就算是联邦政府用心 去规范我们的行为，也是徒劳的。
Either they're outvoted by puppets of agribusiness, or they are puppets of agribusiness.	他们或者会被从事农产品业的傀儡们投否决票， 或者他们本身就从事于农产品业的傀儡。
So, when the USDA finally acknowledged that it was plants, rather than animals, that made people healthy, they encouraged us, via their overly simplistic food pyramid, to eat five servings of fruits and vegetables a day, along with more carbs.	所以当美国农业部最终承认 是植物，而不是动物，使得人们更加健康， 他们建议我们，通过参照他们构建的过于简陋的食品金字塔， 一天吃五份的水果和蔬菜， 和更多的碳水化合物。
What they didn't tell us is that some carbs are better than others, and that plants and whole grains should be supplanting eating junk food.	但是他们没有告诉我们有些碳水化合物比其他的更好， 并且这些植物和全谷类食物 应当替代垃圾食品。
But industry lobbyists would never let that happen.	但是工业界的说客不会让这一切发生。
And guess what?	猜猜为什么？
Half the people who developed the food pyramid have ties to agribusiness.	制定食品金字塔中一半的人 与农产品业有关联。
So, instead of substituting plants for animals, our swollen appetites simply became larger, and the most dangerous aspects of them remained unchanged.	所以并没有用植物替代动物， 我们已经膨胀的胃口变得更大了， 并且其中最危险的部分仍未改变。
So-called low-fat diets, so-called low-carb diets -- these are not solutions.	所谓的低脂肪和低碳水化合物食品 -- 这些并不是解决方案。
But with lots of intelligent people focusing on whether food is organic or local, or whether we're being nice to animals, the most important issues just aren't being addressed.	但是许多有智慧的人 研究某种食物是否有机或本地生产， 或者我们是否要友善地对待动物， 最重要的问题却并没有被涉及。
Now, don't get me wrong.	现在，不要误会我。
I like animals, and I don't think it's just fine to industrialize their production and to churn them out like they were wrenches.	我喜爱动物， 并且我并不认为应当将动物制品产业化 干扰动物的生活。
But there's no way to treat animals well, when you're killing 10 billion of them a year.	但是现在根本无法善待动物 当一年要屠杀100亿头动物的时候。
That's our number. 10 billion.	这是我们的数字。100亿。
If you strung all of them -- chickens, cows, pigs and lambs -- to the moon, they'd go there and back five times, there and back.	如果你将它们连接起来 -- 鸡，牛，猪和羊 -- 到月球， 长度可以来回5次 -- 过去然后回来。
Now, my math's a little shaky, but this is pretty good, and it depends whether a pig is four feet long or five feet long, but you get the idea.	现在，尽管我的数学不是很好，但这个数字大致是没问题的， 尽管基于一头猪的长度是4英尺还是5英尺， 但是你可以有一个大致的概念。
That's just the United States.	这仅仅是对于美国的情况而言。
And with our hyper-consumption of those animals producing greenhouse gases and heart disease, kindness might just be a bit of a red herring.	并且随着我们对于这些动物的过度消耗 产生温室气体和心脏疾病， 仁慈可能仅仅是一种逃避的方式。
Let's get the numbers of the animals we're killing for eating down, and then we'll worry about being nice to the ones that are left.	让我们降低被屠杀的动物的数量， 然后我们再去想如何善待幸存的动物。
Another red herring might be exemplified by the word "locavore," which was just named word of the year by the New Oxford American Dictionary.	另外一个误区的典型代表是"土食主义"， 刚被新牛津美国词典提名为年度单词。
Seriously.	很严肃的话题。
And locavore, for those of you who don't know, is someone who eats only locally grown food -- which is fine if you live in California, but for the rest of us it's a bit of a sad joke.	土食主义者，对于你们之中不了解的人来说， 是一些只吃当地生产的食品的人。 当你居住在加利福尼亚州时这很好， 但是对于其他地区的人来说这是一个悲哀的玩笑。
Between the official story -- the food pyramid -- and the hip locavore vision, you have two versions of how to improve our eating.	在官方的故事 -- 饮食金字塔 -- 和前卫的土食主义文化， 你有两个可以改善饮食的选择。
They both get it wrong, though.	但是这两种方式都错了。
The first at least is populist, and the second is elitist.	第一种方式至少是大众性的，第二种则是只针对小部分团体。
How we got to this place is the history of food in the United States.	我们如何走到今天这一步正是美国饮食的发展史。
And I'm going to go through that, at least the last hundred years or so, very quickly right now.	然后我将对其进行阐述， 至少在离现在很近的大概一百年前的时间。
A hundred years ago, guess what?	猜猜一百年前怎么样？
Everyone was a locavore: even New York had pig farms nearby, and shipping food all over the place was a ridiculous notion.	每个人都是土食者，即使是纽约旁边也有大型的农场 同时往其他地方运输食品是一个很异想天开的想法。
Every family had a cook, usually a mom.	每一个家庭都有一个厨师，通常是母亲。
And those moms bought and prepared food.	这些母亲购买并准备食物。
It was like your romantic vision of Europe.	这就像你所想象的欧洲浪漫的场景。
Margarine didn't exist.	人造黄油并不存在。
In fact, when margarine was invented, several states passed laws declaring that it had to be dyed pink, so we'd all know that it was a fake.	事实上，当发明人造黄油时， 几个州通过法律命令人造黄油要染成粉红色 我们都知道它是假的
There was no snack food, and until the '20s, until Clarence Birdseye came along, there was no frozen food.	那时并没有快餐，并且直到二十年代， 直到克拉伦斯·博兹艾的出现，冷冻食物才发明。
There were no restaurant chains.	那时没有连锁的餐厅。
There were neighborhood restaurants run by local people, but none of them would think to open another one.	当时只有当地人在家附近经营的餐厅， 但是没人想过再开另一家餐厅。
Eating ethnic was unheard of unless you were ethnic.	饮食文化更是前所未闻。
And fancy food was entirely French.	同时花式食物全部是源自法国。
As an aside, those of you who remember Dan Aykroyd in the 1970s doing Julia Child imitations can see where he got the idea of stabbing himself from this fabulous slide.	另外，你记起的那个 丹·艾克罗伊德在二十世纪七十年代模仿朱莉娅·蔡尔德 可以看出他就是这个样子。
Back in those days, before even Julia, back in those days, there was no philosophy of food.	在那些时候，即便是朱莉娅的时代之前， 当时不存在对于食物的学问。
You just ate.	你只是在吃。
You didn't claim to be anything.	你不用宣称什么其他的东西。
There was no marketing. There were no national brands.	当时没有市场。没有全国性的品牌。
Vitamins had not been invented.	维生素还没有发明。
There were no health claims, at least not federally sanctioned ones.	那时没有关于健康的宣言，至少不是像联邦上禁止那样。
Fats, carbs, proteins -- they weren't bad or good, they were food.	脂肪，碳水化合物，蛋白质 -- 它们既不是好的也不是坏的，它们只是食物。
You ate food.	你只是在吃食物。
Hardly anything contained more than one ingredient, because it was an ingredient.	基本没有一种东西包含多于一种成分， 仅仅因为其本身只是一种成分。
The cornflake hadn't been invented.	玉米片也没有发明。
The Pop-Tart, the Pringle, Cheez Whiz, none of that stuff.	也没有蛋挞，普林格尔，当维兹之类的东西。
Goldfish swam.	金鱼还在游动。
It's hard to imagine. People grew food, and they ate food.	这不难想象。人们种植食物并吃种的食物。
And again, everyone ate local.	并且每个人都吃当地产的食物。
In New York, an orange was a common Christmas present, because it came all the way from Florida.	在纽约，桔子是一种很普遍的圣诞礼物， 因为桔子要从遥远的佛罗里达州运过来。
From the '30s on, road systems expanded, trucks took the place of railroads, fresh food began to travel more.	从三十年代开始，公路系统飞速发展， 货车代替了铁路， 更多的新鲜食物被运输。
Oranges became common in New York.	在纽约桔子也变得很常见了。
The South and West became agricultural hubs, and in other parts of the country, suburbs took over farmland.	南方和西方成为农业的中心， 在美国的其他地方城镇代替了耕地。
The effects of this are well known. They are everywhere.	这种做法的影响已经是众所周知的了，并且到处都不例外。
And the death of family farms is part of this puzzle, as is almost everything from the demise of the real community to the challenge of finding a good tomato, even in summer.	家庭农场的消亡是这个问题的一部分, 但也几乎是全部 自从真实的地域生活方式的消亡 即使在夏天也很难找到一个很好的西红柿。
Eventually, California produced too much food to ship fresh, so it became critical to market canned and frozen foods.	最终加利福尼亚州生产了太多的食物以至于不能新鲜地运输出去， 所以灌装和冷冻食品就很有推广的必要了。
Thus arrived convenience.	这带来了方便。
It was sold to proto-feminist housewives as a way to cut down on housework.	典型的女权主义的家庭主妇们接受它 她们认为这是减轻家庭劳务的一个途径
Now, I know everybody over the age of, like 45 -- their mouths are watering at this point.	现在，我知道每个45岁以的人 嘴里开始在流口水了
If we had a slide of Salisbury steak, even more so, right?	我们会吃一块索尔斯伯利牛肉饼，甚至更多，难道不是吗？
But this may have cut down on housework, but it cut down on the variety of food we ate as well.	这可能会减少家庭劳务的工作量， 但是也减少了我们吃的食物的多样性。
Many of us grew up never eating a fresh vegetable except the occasional raw carrot or maybe an odd lettuce salad.	我们之中的许多人都从未食用过新鲜的蔬菜 除了偶尔吃些生萝卜或者是比较少见的生菜沙拉。
I, for one -- and I'm not kidding -- didn't eat real spinach or broccoli till I was 19.	我就是这样 -- 我没有开玩笑 -- 直到19岁时才吃到真正的菠菜和椰菜。
Who needed it though? Meat was everywhere.	谁还需要这些呢？到处都有肉类的存在。
What could be easier, more filling or healthier for your family than broiling a steak?	难道还有更简单，更能填饱肚子，更有益于家庭健康的方式 除了烤牛排？
But by then cattle were already raised unnaturally.	但是那时牛已经被非自然的方式饲养了。
Rather than spending their lives eating grass, for which their stomachs were designed, they were forced to eat soy and corn.	不是吃草， 就像它们的胃所设计的那样， 而是被强迫食用大豆和谷物。
They have trouble digesting those grains, of course, but that wasn't a problem for producers.	他们当然很难消化这些东西， 但是这对于生产者们来讲不是问题。
New drugs kept them healthy.	新型药物维持动物的健康。
Well, they kept them alive.	呃，是使动物们生存下去。
Healthy was another story.	健康是另一回事。
Thanks to farm subsidies, the fine collaboration between agribusiness and Congress, soy, corn and cattle became king.	由于农场的津贴， 农产品业与国会的合作， 大豆，谷物和牛占据了主导地位。
And chicken soon joined them on the throne.	同时鸡也迅速地加入了其中。
It was during this period that the cycle of dietary and planetary destruction began, the thing we're only realizing just now.	就是在这段时间里 饮食循环的形成和地球的破坏开始了， 但直到现在人们才认识到这一点。
Listen to this, between 1950 and 2000, the world's population doubled.	听着， 在1950年到2000年之间，世界人口数量多了一倍。
Meat consumption increased five-fold.	肉类的消耗达到了5倍。
Now, someone had to eat all that stuff, so we got fast food.	现在，有些人只吃这类食物，于是产生了快餐。
And this took care of the situation resoundingly.	这就造成了这种很严重的局面。
Home cooking remained the norm, but its quality was down the tubes.	家庭烹饪还是常态，但是质量却与往日不可同日而语。
There were fewer meals with home-cooked breads, desserts and soups, because all of them could be bought at any store.	很少有人自制面包，甜点和汤， 因为在哪里它们都可以买得到。
Not that they were any good, but they were there.	并不是因为它们有益处，而是因为它们可以买得到。
Most moms cooked like mine: a piece of broiled meat, a quickly made salad with bottled dressing, canned soup, canned fruit salad.	许多母亲像我一样做饭 -- 一块烤肉，一个简易的瓶装沙拉， 罐装汤，罐装水果沙拉。
Maybe baked or mashed potatoes, or perhaps the stupidest food ever, Minute Rice.	可能还有烤土豆或者土豆泥 或者可能是最愚蠢的食物 -- 一分钟米饭。
For dessert, store-bought ice cream or cookies.	甜点则是商店里买回来的冰激凌或小点心。
My mom is not here, so I can say this now.	我妈妈不在这里，所以现在我可以说这些话。
This kind of cooking drove me to learn how to cook for myself.	这样的做饭迫使我去学会如何自己做饭。
It wasn't all bad.	这也并非一无是处。
By the '70s, forward-thinking people began to recognize the value of local ingredients.	在七十年代，前卫的人们 开始认识到当地产的原料的价值。
We tended gardens, we became interested in organic food, we knew or we were vegetarians.	我们管理庄园，同时对有机食物更感兴趣， 我们知道或者我们就是素食主义者。
We weren't all hippies, either.	但我们也不是嬉皮士。
Some of us were eating in good restaurants and learning how to cook well.	我们当中的有些人在好的餐厅里吃并且学会怎样做一手好的烹饪。
Meanwhile, food production had become industrial. Industrial.	同时，食品制造变得工业化。工业化。
Perhaps because it was being produced rationally, as if it were plastic, food gained magical or poisonous powers, or both.	可能因为食品制造过于理性， 就像是塑料一样， 食品开始变得奇幻或有毒，或者两者都有。
Many people became fat-phobic.	许多人厌恶脂肪。
Others worshiped broccoli, as if it were God-like.	其他人像对待上帝一样崇拜着花椰菜。
But mostly they didn't eat broccoli.	但是多数情况下他们并不食用花椰菜。
Instead they were sold on yogurt, yogurt being almost as good as broccoli.	而是喝酸奶， 酸奶变得几乎和花椰菜一样有益。
Except, in reality, the way the industry sold yogurt was to convert it to something much more akin to ice cream.	除了在现实中，工厂销售酸奶 是将其转化成更像是冰激凌的一种东西。
Similarly, let's look at a granola bar.	同样的，让我们看一下燕麦杆。
You think that that might be healthy food, but in fact, if you look at the ingredient list, it's closer in form to a Snickers than it is to oatmeal.	你可能会认为它们是健康的食物， 但事实上，如果你去看原料表， 它更像是士力架而不是燕麦。
Sadly, it was at this time that the family dinner was put in a coma, if not actually killed -- the beginning of the heyday of value-added food, which contained as many soy and corn products as could be crammed into it.	可怕的是，在这时家庭饮食陷入了混乱， 如果是没有被彻底破坏的话。 在含有添加剂食品最多的开始的时候， 这包括了许多大豆和谷类食品 含有添加剂。
Think of the frozen chicken nugget.	想一想冷冻的鸡肉块。
The chicken is fed corn, and then its meat is ground up, and mixed with more corn products to add bulk and binder, and then it's fried in corn oil.	鸡是用谷物饲养的，然后长出肉 并吃更多的谷物继续成长， 然后用谷物油去炸。
All you do is nuke it. What could be better?	你所做的只是烹饪它。还能更好吗？
And zapped horribly, pathetically.	并且屠杀很残忍，惨无人道。
By the '70s, home cooking was in such a sad state that the high fat and spice contents of foods like McNuggets and Hot Pockets -- and we all have our favorites, actually -- made this stuff more appealing than the bland things that people were serving at home.	在七十年代，家庭烹饪变成了这样一种糟糕的状态 高脂肪和香料的食物 如麦纳吉兹和浩特波奇兹 -- 实际上我们都有自己的最爱 -- 使得这类食品比没有添加剂的食品更有吸引力 如家庭里的食物。
At the same time, masses of women were entering the workforce, and cooking simply wasn't important enough for men to share the burden.	与此同时，更多的女人参加工作， 烹饪又不那么重要 要让男人来承担。
So now, you've got your pizza nights, you've got your microwave nights, you've got your grazing nights, you've got your fend-for-yourself nights and so on.	所以现在我们在晚上吃比萨，用微波炉加热食品， 去大吃大喝， 自给自足，等等。
Leading the way -- what's leading the way?	变得主导 -- 什么是主导呢？
Meat, junk food, cheese: the very stuff that will kill you.	肉类，垃圾食品，奶酪。 这些食品会减少你的寿命。
So, now we clamor for organic food.	所以我们现在倡导有机食品。
That's good.	这很好。
And as evidence that things can actually change, you can now find organic food in supermarkets, and even in fast-food outlets.	有证据表明现在事情正在改变`， 在超市中你可以见到有机食品， 甚至在快餐市场里。
But organic food isn't the answer either, at least not the way it's currently defined.	但是有机食品并不是解决办法， 至少不像它现在被认为的那样。
Let me pose you a question.	让我提个问题。
Can farm-raised salmon be organic, when its feed has nothing to do with its natural diet, even if the feed itself is supposedly organic, and the fish themselves are packed tightly in pens, swimming in their own filth?	农场饲养的大马哈鱼能否是有机的 当饲料并不是自然的食品， 即便饲料是有机的，那些鱼本身 在围栏里紧紧地围在一起，在它们的排泄物中游动？
And if that salmon's from Chile, and it's killed down there and then flown 5,000 miles, whatever, dumping how much carbon into the atmosphere?	如果大马哈鱼是来自智利，并且在智利被宰， 然后运输5000英里， 在大气中会增加多少碳？
I don't know.	我不清楚。
Packed in Styrofoam, of course, before landing somewhere in the United States, and then being trucked a few hundred more miles.	当然用发泡胶包裹着， 在美国的某个地方卸货之前 然后运往几百英里外的其他地方。
This may be organic in letter, but it's surely not organic in spirit.	从定义上来讲这可能是有机的，但从本质上并不是。
Now here is where we all meet.	现在这就是我们所面对的。
The locavores, the organivores, the vegetarians, the vegans, the gourmets and those of us who are just plain interested in good food.	土食主义，有机食品主义，素食主义， 绝对素食者，美食家 和我们当中对健康食品感兴趣的那些人。
Even though we've come to this from different points, we all have to act on our knowledge to change the way that everyone thinks about food.	即便我们的出发点不尽相同， 我们都要利用我们的知识去行动 改变每个人对于食品的认识。
We need to start acting.	我们需要开始行动了。
And this is not only an issue of social justice, as Ann Cooper said -- and, of course, she's completely right -- but it's also one of global survival.	这就像安·库珀所说的，并不仅仅是一个有关社会正义感的问题 -- 当然她是完全正确的 -- 而且也是有关整体存亡的问题。
Which bring me full circle and points directly to the core issue, the overproduction and overconsumption of meat and junk food.	我们回到问题的关键， 对于肉类和垃圾食品的过度制造和过度消耗。
As I said, 18 percent of greenhouse gases are attributed to livestock production.	就像我说的，百分之十八的温室气体 由畜牧业产生。
How much livestock do you need to produce this?	需要多少资源产生这些量呢？
70 percent of the agricultural land on Earth, 30 percent of the Earth's land surface is directly or indirectly devoted to raising the animals we'll eat.	地球上百分之七十的可耕种土地。 地表上百分之三十的面积都直接或间接地用在 饲养我们所吃的动物上。
And this amount is predicted to double in the next 40 years or so.	在未来的40年左右的时间这个数字还将翻倍。
And if the numbers coming in from China are anything like what they look like now, it's not going to be 40 years.	并且如果中国的数字 还和现在一样的话， 根本用不了40年的时间。
There is no good reason for eating as much meat as we do.	我们并没有足够的理由去吃那么多肉类。
And I say this as a man who has eaten a fair share of corned beef in his life.	我想说的是一个在一生中吃适量的谷物产生的牛肉的男人。
The most common argument is that we need nutrients -- even though we eat, on average, twice as much protein as even the industry-obsessed USDA recommends.	最多的借口是我们需要汲取营养 -- 即便我们平均食用了两倍的 和工业紧密联系的美国农业部的建议摄入量。
But listen: experts who are serious about disease reduction recommend that adults eat just over half a pound of meat per week.	但是请听 -- 专注于减少疾病的专家们 建议成人每周吃半磅多一点的肉类。
What do you think we eat per day? Half a pound.	我们现在每天吃多少？半磅。
But don't we need meat to be big and strong?	但是难道我们不需要肉类来变得强壮吗？
Isn't meat eating essential to health?	肉类对健康不是必需的吗？
Won't a diet heavy in fruit and vegetables turn us into godless, sissy, liberals?	过多水果和蔬菜的饮食 会不会使我们变成无神论者，缺乏阳刚之气，自由论者？
Some of us might think that would be a good thing.	我们当中的有些人可能认为这会是一件好事情。
But, no, even if we were all steroid-filled football players, the answer is no.	但不是这样，即使我们都是需要激烈运动的橄榄球运动员， 答案也是否定的。
In fact, there's no diet on Earth that meets basic nutritional needs that won't promote growth, and many will make you much healthier than ours does.	实际上，地球上没有任何饮食能够满足 基本的营养需求而不会有助于成长， 同时许多会使我们变得比现在更健康。
We don't eat animal products for sufficient nutrition, we eat them to have an odd form of malnutrition, and it's killing us.	我们并不需要动物制品来获得足够的营养， 我们过多食用它们只会变得营养不良，并且减少我们的寿命。
To suggest that in the interests of personal and human health Americans eat 50 percent less meat -- it's not enough of a cut, but it's a start.	建议为了个人和整个人类的健康 美国人少吃一半的肉类 -- 这尽管并不是足够的削减，但是一个崭新的开始。
It would seem absurd, but that's exactly what should happen, and what progressive people, forward-thinking people should be doing and advocating, along with the corresponding increase in the consumption of plants.	尽管这看起来很荒唐，但这却真真切切是现在应该发生的事， 和激进的，前卫的人们 应当做和倡导的事， 和相应更多地食用植物。
I've been writing about food more or less omnivorously -- one might say indiscriminately -- for about 30 years.	我一直是比较随意地写些关于食物的文章 -- 就是这个样子 -- 大概有30年了。
During that time, I've eaten and recommended eating just about everything.	在这其间， 我吃 并且建议吃几乎所有的东西时。
I'll never stop eating animals, I'm sure, but I do think that for the benefit of everyone, the time has come to stop raising them industrially and stop eating them thoughtlessly.	我确信我以后并不会停止吃动物食品， 但是我想为了每个人的利益， 现在是时候停止将动物产业化饲养 并且停止随意地食用它们。
Ann Cooper's right.	安·库珀是正确的。
The USDA is not our ally here.	在这方面美国农业部并不是我们的同盟。
We have to take matters into our own hands, not only by advocating for a better diet for everyone -- and that's the hard part -- but by improving our own.	我们需要去自己把握， 不仅仅是向每个人提倡一种更好的饮食 -- 这是很困难的 -- 并且改善我们自己的饮食。
And that happens to be quite easy.	这个可以很容易实现。
Less meat, less junk, more plants.	更少的肉类，垃圾食品，更多的植物。
It's a simple formula: eat food.	这是一个很简单的准则 -- 吃食物。
Eat real food.	吃真正的食物。
We can continue to enjoy our food, and we continue to eat well, and we can eat even better.	我们可以继续去享受我们的食物，我们可以继续吃得很好， 甚至更好。
We can continue the search for the ingredients we love, and we can continue to spin yarns about our favorite meals.	我们可以继续寻找我们喜爱的成分， 并且我们可以讲关于我们喜爱的食物的故事。
We'll reduce not only calories, but our carbon footprint.	我们减少的不仅是卡路里，而且是碳的痕迹。
We can make food more important, not less, and save ourselves by doing so.	我们可以使食物变得更加重要，而不是贬值 并且通过这种行为拯救我们自己。
We have to choose that path.	我们必须要选择这条道路
Thank you.	谢谢。
I'm Dr. David Hanson, and I build robots with character.	我是戴维•汉 森，我设计具有人格的机器人。
And by that, I mean that I develop robots that are characters, but also robots that will eventually come to empathize with you.	我指的是， 我研制出的机器 人具有个性， 也是个最终 会跟你产生共 鸣的机器人。
So we're starting with a variety of technologies that have converged into these conversational character robots that can see faces, make eye contact with you, make a full range of facial expressions, understand speech and begin to model how you're feeling and who you are, and build a relationship with you.	所以我们从许 多不同的科技开始， 这些科技造就 了具人格并懂得对话的机器人， 它们看得到 脸，也会跟你有眼神上的交流， 还会做许多种 脸部表情，也懂得对话， 并且开始仿效 你的感觉， 了解你是谁， 并与你建立关系。
I developed a series of technologies that allowed the robots to make more realistic facial expressions than previously achieved, on lower power, which enabled the walking biped robots, the first androids.	我发展了一系 列的科技， 让机器人做出 栩栩如生的脸部表情， 比起先前类似 的成果，耗能很低， 这造就了第一 代的人型机器人，两只脚的机器人。
So, it's a full range of facial expressions simulating all the major muscles in the human face, running on very small batteries, extremely lightweight.	这个机器人有 着相当多的脸部表情， 仿效着人类脸 上的所有主要肌肉， 可以靠很小的 电池运作， 极度轻薄。
The materials that allowed the battery-operated facial expressions is a material that we call Frubber, and it actually has three major innovations in the material that allow this to happen.	让这电池驱动 的脸部表情成真的材料， 是我们叫作 Frubber 的材料， 这材料有着三 种主要创新， 让这项科技得 以实现。
One is hierarchical pores, and the other is a macro-molecular nanoscale porosity in the material.	一个是阶层式 毛孔。 另一个则是材 料中的巨分子奈米孔径。
There he's starting to walk.	这是机器人开 始在走路。
This is at the Korean Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.	这地点在韩国 高等科学技术学院。
I built the head. They built the body.	我做了头部， 他们则做了身体。
So the goal here is to achieve sentience in machines, and not just sentience, but empathy.	我的目标是透 过机器表达感觉， 不只是感觉， 神情上也是。
We're working with the Machine Perception Laboratory at the U.C. San Diego.	我们和加州大 学圣地亚哥分校) 的机械感知实 验室 合作。
They have this really remarkable facial expression technology that recognizes facial expressions, what facial expressions you're making.	他们具有这项 了不起的脸部表情科技， 认得各种脸部 表情， 你所作的各种 表情。
It also recognizes where you're looking, your head orientation.	它还分辨得出 你在往哪看，还有你头的动向。
We're emulating all the major facial expressions, and then controlling it with the software that we call the Character Engine.	我们模仿所有 主要的脸部表情， 再用「表情引 擎」这个软件 控制机器 人。
And here is a little bit of the technology that's involved in that.	这是以上这 些科技的小小展示。
In fact, right now -- plug it from here, and then plug it in here, and now let's see if it gets my facial expressions.	事实上，现 在，从这边插插头，再从这边插入， 现在我们来 看看，它是否读得到我的脸部表情。
Okay. So I'm smiling.	OK. 所以我正在微笑。
Now I'm frowning.	现在我在皱 眉头。
And this is really heavily backlit.	这里的背光 相当严重。
Okay, here we go.	好，可以 了。
Oh, it's so sad.	噢，它真难 过。
Okay, so you smile, frowning.	OK，当你 微笑和皱眉头时。
So his perception of your emotional states is very important for machines to effectively become empathetic.	它对你情绪 状态的察觉是很重要的， 这让机器人 可以有效地仿效你的情感。
Machines are becoming devastatingly capable of things like killing. Right?	机器现在变 得具有毁灭性的力量， 像是杀戮， 对吧？
Those machines have no place for empathy.	那些机器没 有情感。
And there is billions of dollars being spent on that.	人们却耗费 数十亿元在那上头。
Character robotics could plant the seed for robots that actually have empathy.	我们可以用 情感机器人做个开端， 使未来机器 人真的能具有同理心。
So, if they achieve human level intelligence or, quite possibly, greater than human levels of intelligence, this could be the seeds of hope for our future.	所以，如果 它们有人类般的智慧， 或甚至有可 能，比人类的智慧要来得高， 这有可能是 我们未来希望的开端。
So, we've made 20 robots in the last eight years, during the course of getting my Ph.D.	过去八年， 在我攻读博士期间，我们完成了二十个机器人。
And then I started Hanson Robotics, which has been developing these things for mass manufacturing.	接着我创立 了汉森机器科学公司， 为的是大规 模生产研发这些科技。
This is one of our robots that we showed at Wired NextFest a couple of years ago.	这是我们生 产的机器人中的一个， 我们几年前 在《Wierd》杂志 所举办的发明大展 中展示过。
And it sees multiple people in a scene, remembers where individual people are, and looks from person to person, remembering people.	它能同时辨 认许多不同的人， 记得每个人 所在的位置， 在人与人间 来回注视着，并记得他们。
So, we're involving two things.	我们谈的有 两件事。
One, the perception of people, and two, the natural interface, the natural form of the interface, so that it's more intuitive for you to interact with the robot.	一个是人的 知觉。 另一个是自 然的界面， 接口原本应 有的样子， 所以你跟机 器人互动是更直观的。
You start to believe that it's alive and aware.	你开始相信 机器人是有生命并有意识的。
So one of my favorite projects was bringing all this stuff together in an artistic display of an android portrait of science-fiction writer Philip K. Dick, who wrote great works like, "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?"	所以我最喜 欢的主题之一，就是把这些结合起来， 用一种艺术 性的展示， 秀出科幻小 说作家菲利普•狄克笔下的机器人， 他曾写出像 《机器人是否会梦见机器羊？》这样精采的作品，
which was the basis of the movie "Bladerunner."	电影《银翼 杀手》就是基于这部小说
In these stories, robots often think that they're human, and they sort of come to life.	在这些故事 里，机器人常常会觉得 他们是人 类。而且他们总是会获得生命。
So we put his writings, letters, his interviews, correspondences, into a huge database of thousands of pages, and then used some natural language processing to allow you to actually have a conversation with him.	所以我们把 他的作品、信件、 他的访问、 书函， 集结成上千 页的数据库， 接着再用一 些自然的语言处理， 让你真的可 以和他对话。
And it was kind of spooky, because he would say these things that just sounded like they really understood you.	这还真的有 点吓人。因为他会说些事， 就好像它们 真的懂你。
And this is one of the most exciting projects that we're developing, which is a little character that's a spokesbot for friendly artificial intelligence, friendly machine intelligence.	这正是我们 在发展最令人兴奋的计划之一， 这是个小角 色，一个小机器人， 目的是研发 友善的人工智能，友善的机械智能。
And we're getting this mass-manufactured.	我们正在大 规模生产这个产品。
We specked it out to actually be doable with a very, very low-cost bill of materials, so that it can become a childhood companion for kids.	我们知道这 是真的做得到的， 用一种相当 低成本的材料， 这就可以成 为孩子童年的伙伴。
Interfacing with the Internet, it gets smarter over the years.	接上网络， 经过岁月，机器人会变得更聪明。
As artificial intelligence evolves, so does his intelligence.	在人工智能 演化的同时，这机器人的智慧也会演化。
Thank you so much. That's incredible.	克里斯•安 德森：很谢谢你！真的是太了不起了！
For the last 20 years I've been designing puzzles.	过去的20年中，我一直致力于设计益智游戏。
And I'm here today to give you a little tour, starting from the very first puzzle I designed, through what I'm doing now.	我今天来这儿，是带领大家 一起来回顾这20年的旅程， 从我的第一件作品开始 一直到我正在设计的作品。
I've designed puzzles for books, printed things.	我为各种书籍，印刷品设计游戏。
I'm the puzzle columnist for Discover Magazine.	我为《发现》杂志，撰写游戏专栏
I've been doing that for about 10 years.	已近10年。
I have a monthly puzzle calendar.	我还设计游戏月历。
I do toys. The bulk of my work is in computer games.	我也做玩具。我的一大部分工作是设计计算机游戏。
I did puzzles for "Bejeweled."	我为宝石迷阵做设计。
I didn't invent "Bejeweled." I can't take credit for that.	我没有发明宝石迷阵， 我不能以此自夸。
So, very first puzzle, sixth grade, my teacher said, "Oh, let's see, that guy, he likes to make stuff.	那么， 我的第一个发明， 那是在六年级， 我的老师说， "额， 让我们瞧瞧， 这位同学，他喜欢动手做小发明。
I'll have him cut out letters out of construction paper for the board."	我们来让他用一张白纸剪出一个字母来 帖到黑板上。"
I thought this was a great assignment.	我感到这个作业很棒。
And so here is what I came up with. I start fiddling with it.	这就是我的成果。 我开始折纸。
I came up with this letter. This is a letter of the alphabet that's been folded just once.	我做了这个， 它是一个字母， 但被折叠了一次。
The question is, which letter is it if I unfold it?	我的问题是，如果我把它展开的话， 会是哪个字母呢？
One hint: It's not "L."	提示： 它不是字母L。
It could be an "L," of course.	它可能是"L"。
So, what else could it be?	那么， 这到底是哪个字母呢？
Yeah, a lot of you got it.	哈哈， 还是有很多人猜出来啦。
Oh yeah. So, clever thing.	是的， 一个调皮的小玩意儿。
Now, that was my first puzzle. I got hooked.	这就是我的第一个设计。 我从此迷上了设计游戏。
I created something new, I was very excited because, you know, I'd made crossword puzzles, but that's sort of like filling in somebody else's matrix.	我创作了新的东西，我为此而兴奋。 因为， 你们知道， 我也设计过填字游戏， 但设计填字游戏让我感觉循规蹈矩。
This was something really original. I got hooked.	而这个让我觉得我真的在创造些什么。 这让我着迷。
I read Martin Gardner's columns in Scientific American.	我开始阅读《科学美国人》杂志中 Martin Gardner的专栏。
Went on, and eventually decided to devote myself, full time, to that.	我一直坚持并且最后决定将此作为自己的事业。
Now, I should pause and say, what do I mean by puzzle?	现在， 让我稍作停顿， 并且解释一下， 到底什么是游戏呢？
A puzzle is a problem that is fun to solve and has a right answer.	益智游戏是一种有问题，有正确答案 而且，我们会从探索解决方法的过程中，获得乐趣的游戏。
"Fun to solve," as opposed to everyday problems, which, frankly, are not very well-designed puzzles.	这样的"有乐趣的解决问题"与我们日常生活中遇到的"问题"不同， 我们生活中碰到的那些问题， 坦率的讲，"设计"的太"粗糙"啦。
You know, they might have a solution.	那些生活问题， 或许会有个解决方案。
It might take a long time. Nobody wrote down the rules clearly.	但找到那个方法或许很费时间， 也没人能清楚的告诉我们应该怎么做。
Who designed this?	到底是谁给我们"设计"了那么多生活难题？
It's like, you know, life is not a very well-written story so we have to hire writers to make movies.	这就像我们说的， 生活是一个蹩脚的小说， 所以，我们得雇人写电影剧本。
Well, I take everyday problems, and I make puzzles out of them.	我所做的，就是从日常生活的那些问题中获得灵感，再将他们设计成小游戏。
And "right answer," of course there might be more than one right answer; many puzzles have more than one.	这些小游戏， 有正确答案， 而且可能还不止一个。 许多小游戏， 都不止一个答案。
But as opposed to a couple other forms of play, toys and games -- by toy I mean, something you play with that doesn't have a particular goal.	但相对于其他形式的娱乐 比如玩具和竞赛， 玩玩具，我的意思是，你在玩玩具时并不抱有任何特别的目的。
You can create one out of Legos.	你可以用乐高创造你自己的玩具。
You know, you can do anything you want.	你可以用乐高做出任何你想做的造型。
Or competitive games like chess where, well, you're not trying to solve ... You can make a chess puzzle, but the goal really is to beat another player.	我们也玩竞赛类游戏， 比方下棋。 我们下棋并不是解决某个问题。 当然， 我们可以搞个棋类游戏。 但下棋终归是要把你的对手打败。
I consider that puzzles are an art form.	我觉得益智游戏是一种艺术。
They're very ancient. It goes back as long as there is written history.	这种古老的艺术， 从人类有书写史的时候就开始有了。
It's a very small form, like a joke, a poem, a magic trick or a song, very compact form.	游戏可以很短小， 比方一个小玩笑 也可以是一句诗歌，一个小魔术，一首诗，结构紧凑。
At worst, they're throwaways, they're for amusement.	最差的游戏，也不过是被扔掉了，他们就是为了娱乐而生的。
But at best they can reach for something more and create a memorable impression.	但最好的游戏却能深入人心， 让人难以忘怀。
The progression of my career that you'll see is looking for creating puzzles that have a memorable impact.	我的职业发展，你们可以看到 就是设计出让人难以忘怀的游戏来。
So, one thing I found early on, when I started doing computer games, is that I could create puzzles that will alter your perception.	早期我就发现，在我刚开始做电脑游戏的时候， 我能创造出一些能够改变我们感观的游戏。
I'll show you how. Here is a famous one.	我来告诉你们怎么做。 下面这个很有名。
So, it's two profiles in black, or a white vase in the middle.	看，这是两个黑色的人像剖面，或者说中间是一个白色的花瓶。
This is called a figure-ground illusion.	这叫图像背景幻象。
The artist M.C. Escher exploited that in some of his wonderful prints.	艺术家M.C. 埃舍尔在 他的一些精美画作中创造了这种艺术。
Here we have "Day and Night."	这个是白天和夜晚。
Here is what I did with figure and ground.	下面是我利用图像和背景所做的。
So, here we have "figure" in black.	所以，我们这里有黑色的"图像"。
Here we have "figure" in white.	我们有白色的"图像"。
And it's all part of the same design.	而它们都是同一个图像的一部分。
The background to one is the other.	背景对于一个前景来说是背景但本身又是一个前景。
Originally I tried to do the words "figure" and "ground."	起初我想用"图像"和"背景"的单词。
But I couldn't do that, I realized. I changed the problem.	但我承认我做不到。我就把问题变通了一下。
It's all "figure."	于是都成了"图像"。
A few other things. Here is my name.	再看其他的一些。这个是我的名字。
And that turns into the title of my first book, "Inversions."	而它变成了我第一本书的名字，"Inversions"。
These sorts of designs now go by the word "ambigram."	这种图案现在有个新词叫做"双向图"。
I'll show you just a couple others. Here we have the numbers one through 10, the digits zero through nine, actually.	我再给你们看几个其他的。这个是 数字从一到十，实际上是从零到九。
Each letter here is one of these digits.	这儿每个字母都是其中一个数字。
Not strictly an ambigram in the conventional sense.	不是传统意义上严格的双向图。
I like pushing on what an ambigram can mean.	我喜欢推进到双向图的意义。
Here's the word "mirror." No, it's not the same upside-down.	下面这个单词是"mirror"。不，上下颠倒过来不行。
It's the same this way.	左右颠倒，才是一样的。
And a marvelous fellow from the Media Lab who just got appointed head of RISD, is John Maeda.	一个来自Media Lab优秀的家伙 他刚被任命为RISD的头儿，叫约翰前田。
And so I did this for him. It's sort of a visual canon.	我给他设计了这个，有点像视觉艺术作品。
And recently in Magic magazine I've done a number of ambigrams on magician's names.	最近在《魔术》杂志上 我设计了很多魔术师名字的双向图。
So here we have Penn and Teller, same upside-down.	这个是Penn and Teller，上下颠倒过来一样。
This appears in my puzzle calendar.	这个也出现在我的游戏月历上。
Okay, let's go back to the slides.	好，让我们回到幻灯片上来。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
Now, those are fun to look at.	这些都是看起来好玩的东西。
Now how would you do it interactively?	但是你怎么做成互动的呢？
For a while I was an interface designer.	有段时间我是一名互动界面的设计师。
And so I think a lot about interaction.	因此我思考了很多关于互动的问题。
Well, let's first of all simplify the vases illusion, make the thing on the right.	好，首先让我们简化一下花瓶幻象， 作出右边的东西来。
Now, if you could pick up the black vase, it would look like the figure on top.	所以，如果你捡起黑色的花瓶， 它看起来就像是在表层的图案。
If you could pick up the white area, it would look like the figure on the bottom.	如果你捡起白色的区域呢 它看起来就像是底层的图案。
Well, you can't do that physically, but on a computer you can do it. Let's switch over to the P.C.	额，按自然道理来说你做不到， 但是在电脑上你能做到。让我们转到电脑上来。
And here it is, figure-ground.	就是这个，图案背景。
The goal here is to take the pieces on the left and make them so they look like the shape on the right.	目标是移动左边的图案 重组它们从而使它们看起来像右边的形状。
And this follows the rules I just said: any black area that is surrounded by white can be picked up.	而且这些符合我刚才所说的规则， 被白色围着的任何黑色区域都可以被捡起来。
But that is also true of any white area.	但是任何白色区域也可以。
So, here we got the white area in the middle, and you can pick it up.	所以，中间有块儿白色区域， 你可以将它捡起来。
I'll just go one step further.	进一步地说。
So, here is -- here is a couple pieces. Move them together, and now this is an active piece.	所以，这个-- 这是两块儿图案。把他们移到一起， 现在这块儿变成了活动的了。
You can really get inside somebody's perception and have them experience something.	你可以真正地深入人心 让他们体会到一些东西。
It's like the old maxim of "you can tell somebody something and show them, but if they do it they really learn it."	就像古老的格言所说的 "你可以把事情告诉一个人 展示给他们，但是只有他们去做了才能真正的学到。"
Here is another thing you can do.	这个是另一个你可以做的事。
There is a game called Rush Hour.	有个游戏叫尖峰时刻。
This is one of the true masterpieces in puzzle design besides Rubik's cube.	这个在游戏设计上是真正的一个杰作 仅次于魔方。
So, here we have a crowded parking lot with cars all over the place.	现在，我们这儿有一个拥挤的停车场 挤满了汽车。
The goal is to get the red car out. It's a sliding block puzzle.	目标是把红色的汽车开出来。这是一个物体移动游戏。
It's made by the company Think Fun.	它是由Think Fun公司做的。
It's done very well. I love this puzzle.	做得非常好。我非常喜欢这个游戏。
Well, let's play one. Here. So, here is a very simple puzzle.	好，让我们玩一个。这个是一个非常简单的游戏。
Well, that's too simple, let's add another piece.	哎，这个太简单了，让我们再加上一块。
Okay, so how would you solve this one?	好，那么你们怎么解决这一个？
Well, move the blue one out of the way.	额，把那个蓝色的移走。
Here, let's make it a little harder. Still pretty easy.	好，让我们再把它变难一点。仍然很简单。
Now we'll make it harder, a little harder.	现在我们把它变得难一点，稍微难一点。
Now, this one is a little bit trickier.	现在，这个有点难对付了。
You know? What do you do here?	你知道么？你们会怎么做？
The first move is going to be what?	第一步该做什么?
You're going to move the blue one up in order to get the lavender one to the right.	你会把蓝色的向上移来使淡紫色的移到右边。
And you can make puzzles like this one that aren't solvable at all.	而且你可以设计像这一个的游戏，根本没有答案。
Those four are locked in a pinwheel; you can't get them apart.	这四个串在一起；你不能把它们分开。
I wanted to make a sequel.	我想做一个后续。
I didn't come up with the original idea. But this is another way I work as an inventor is to create a sequel.	原始的想法不是我想出来的。但是 我作为一名发明家也创作后续。
I came up with this. This is Railroad Rush Hour.	我创作了这个。这是铁路尖峰时刻。
It's the same basic game except I introduced a new piece, a square piece that can move both horizontally and vertically.	基本上是同样的游戏，除了我引入了一块的新的方块儿， 一个既可以水平移动也可以垂直移动的方块儿。
In the other game the cars can only move forward and back.	在其他游戏中汽车只能前后移动。
Created a whole bunch of levels for it.	有很多的不同的等级。
Now I'm making it available to schools.	现在我正在把它推广到学校。
And it includes exercises that show you not just how to solve these puzzles, but how to extract the principles that will let you solve mathematical puzzles or problems in science, other areas.	它还有习题，不仅告诉你 怎样解决这些益智游戏， 而且也告诉你怎样从中提取出原理，从而让你解决 数学问题或在科学或其他领域的问题。
So, I'm really interested in you learning how to make your own puzzles as well as just me creating them.	因此，我对于你们正在学习怎样设计你们自己的游戏非常感兴趣 就如同我自己设计一样。
Garry Trudeau calls himself an investigative cartoonist.	加里特鲁多称他自己是调查研究漫画家。
You know, he does a lot of research before he writes a cartoon.	你们知道，在他创作一个漫画之前，他做大量的调查研究。
In Discover Magazine, I'm an investigative puzzle maker.	在《发现》杂志上，我是一个调查研究型的游戏设计者。
I got interested in gene sequencing.	我对基因排序很感兴趣。
And I said, "Well, how on Earth can you come up with a sequence of the base pairs in DNA?"	并且我说，"啊，你们到底是怎么想出的 DNA碱基对的排序的？
Cut up the DNA, you sequence individual pieces, and then you look for overlaps, and you basically match them at the edges. And I said, "This is kind of like a jigsaw puzzle, except the pieces overlap."	把DNA切开，你给独立的部分排序， 然后你再找出重叠部分， 而且你再把他们的边连起来。我看， "这有点像拼图游戏，除了重叠的部分。"
So, here is what I created for Discover Magazine.	这就是我给《发现》杂志创作的。
And it has to be solvable in a magazine.	而且恰好它在杂志里被解决了。
You know, you can't cut out the pieces and move them around.	你们知道你们不能把它们切碎再移动它们。
So, here is the nine pieces. And you're supposed to put them into this grid.	这里是九个部分而你要把它们放在这个框中。
And you have to choose pieces that overlap on the edge.	而且你必须选择那些在边缘上重叠的。
There is only one solution. It's not that hard.	只有一个答案。没有那么难。
But it takes some persistence.	但是需要一些耐心。
And when you're done, it makes this design, which, if you squint, is the word "helix."	当你完成了，它就是这个图案， 如果你眯眼看的话就是"hilix"这个词。
So, that's the form of the puzzle coming out of the content, rather than the other way around.	所以，这种形式的益智游戏源于内容， 而不是颠倒过来的那样。
Here is a couple more. Here is a physics-based puzzle.	这儿还有更多的。这是一个基于物理的游戏。
Which way will these fall?	它们会以哪种方式掉下来？
One of these weighs 50 pounds, 30 pounds and 10 pounds.	它们每个分别是50磅，30磅和10磅。
And depending on which one weighs which amount, they'll fall different directions.	而且根据它们的重量 他们会落向不同的方向。
And here is a puzzle based on color mixing.	这儿还有一个基于混合颜色的游戏。
I separated this image into cyan, magenta, yellow, black, the basic printing colors, and then mixed up the separations, and you get these peculiar pictures.	我把这个图像分成青色，品红色，黄色，黑色， 这些最基本的印刷色彩然后把它们混合起来， 你就得到这些奇特的图片。
Which separations were mixed up to make those pictures?	这些图片是由哪些颜色混合起来组成的？
Gets you thinking about color.	让你们思考起颜色来了。
Finally, what I'm doing now. So, ShuffleBrain.com, website you can go visit, I joined up with my wife, Amy-Jo Kim.	最后，我现在正在做的，是ShuffleBrain.com， 这个网站，你可以访问，是我和我的妻子艾米乔金创立的。
She could easily be up here giving a talk about her work.	如果她到台上来，也会告诉你她的工作
So, we're making smart games for social media.	所以，我们正在为社会媒体设计益智游戏。
I'll explain what that means. We're looking at three trends.	我会给你们解释什么意思。我们正在关注着三个潮流。
This is what's going on in the games industry right now.	这是游戏产业正在进行着的。
First of all, you know, for a long time computer games meant things like "Doom," where you're going around shooting things, very violent games, very fast, aimed at teenage boys. Right? That's who plays computer games.	首先，你知道，在很长一段时间 电脑游戏就意味着毁灭， 你到那里去射击，是非常暴力，节奏非常快的游戏， 目标是青少年男孩子。是吧？只有男孩子们才玩电脑游戏。
Well, guess what? That's changing.	可是你猜怎么着？情况变了。
"Bejeweled" is a big hit. It was the game that really broke open what's called casual games.	宝石迷阵游戏获得了巨大成功。就是这个游戏真正地开启了 所谓的休闲游戏。
And the main players are over 35, and are female.	而且主要玩家年龄在35岁以上，而且是女性。
Then recently "Rock Band" has been a big hit.	最近摇滚乐队又获得了巨大成功。
And it's a game you play with other people.	而且这是一个与其他人一起玩的多人游戏。
It's very physical. It looks nothing like a traditional game.	非常新潮，看起来一点也不像传统游戏。
This is what's becoming the dominant form of electronic gaming.	这就是现在正变成电子游戏主流的游戏。
Now, within that there is some interesting things happening.	现在，这内部又发生了一些有趣的事情。
There is also a trend towards games that are good for you.	又一种潮流就是有益性。
Why? Well, we aging Boomers, Baby Boomers, we're eating our healthy food, we're exercising. What about our minds?	为什么?我们年老了， 我们是婴儿潮时出生的，我们吃保健品， 我们在锻炼身体。可是我们的智力呢？
Oh no, our parents are getting Alzheimer's. We better do something.	不，我们的父母开始患上阿尔茨海默氏症。我们最好做点什么。
Turns out doing crossword puzzles can stave off some of the effects of Alzheimer's.	结果是做填字游戏能避开阿尔茨海默氏症的一些影响。
So, we got games like "Brain Age" coming out for the Nintendo DS, huge hit.	所以，我们为任天堂做的大脑时代游戏，是个巨大成功。
A lot of people do Sudoku. In fact some doctors prescribe it.	很多人玩数独。实际上一些医生要求病人玩。
And then there is social media, and what's happening on the Internet.	然后是社会媒体，还有现在互联网上发生的一切。
Everybody now considers themselves a creator, and not just a viewer.	现在每个人都认为自己是个创造者， 而不仅仅是一个旁观者。
And what does this add up to?	而这些意味着什么呢？
Here is what we see coming.	接下来就是我们能看到的将要发生的事。
It's games that fit into a healthy lifestyle.	适合健康的生活方式的游戏。
They're part of your life. They're not necessarily a separate thing.	它们是我们生活的一部分。它们不一定非得是一个独立的东西。
And they are both, something that is good for you, and they're fun.	而且它们既是对你有益的东西，又很有趣。
I'm a puzzle guy. My wife is an expert in social media.	我是个游戏迷。我妻子是社会媒体方面的专家。
And we decided to combine our skills.	我们决定将我们的技能结合起来。
Our first game is called "Photo Grab." The game takes about a minute and 20 seconds.	我们的第一个游戏叫"抓图"。这个游戏花费大约一分钟二十秒。
This is your first time playing my game. Okay.	这是你们第一次玩我的游戏。好。
Let's see how well we can do. There are three images.	让我们看看我们能玩到什么程度。这儿有三张图。
And we have 24 seconds each.	而我们每张图都有二十四秒。
Where is that?	这个在哪儿？
I'll play as fast as I can.	我会尽我最快的速度来玩。
But if you can see it, shout out the answer.	如果你们能看出来，喊出答案。
You get more -- Down, okay, yeah where is that?	你们还有--下面，好的，这个在哪儿？
Oh, yeah. There, okay. J-O and -- I guess that's that part. We got the bow. That bow helps.	啊，好。那儿，好的。J-O还有-- 我猜这是那一部分。我们看到弓形了。这个弓形有帮助作用。
That's his hair. You get a lot of figure-ground problems.	这个是头发。你们看到有很多图案背景问题。
Yeah, that one is easy. Okay. So, ahhh! Okay on to the next one.	啊，这个简单。好，那，啊-！好，看下一个。
Okay, so that's the lens.	好的，这个是镜头。
Anybody?	谁知道？
Looks like a black shape. So, where is that?	看起来像黑色的形状。那，这个在哪儿？
That's the corner of the whole thing.	这个是整个东西的角儿。
Yeah, I've played this image before, but even when I make up my own puzzles -- and you can put your own images in here.	是，我以前玩过这张图。 但是即使我设计我自己的游戏-- 而你们可以把你们自己的图案放在这儿。
And we have people all over the world doing that now.	现在全世界的人都在玩儿这个。
There we are. Visit ShuffleBrain.com if you want to try it yourself. Thank you.	就到这里。访问ShuffleBrain.com 如果你想亲自尝试的话。谢谢。
This is the exact moment that I started creating something called Tinkering School.	就是在那个时候 我开办了一个叫做修补学校的项目。
Tinkering School is a place where kids can pick up sticks and hammers and other dangerous objects, and be trusted.	修补学校里，孩子们可以拿起木棍 和锤子以及一些其他危险的物品， 并且给予信任。
Trusted not to hurt themselves, and trusted not to hurt others.	相信他们不会让自己受伤， 相信他们不会让他人受伤。
Tinkering School doesn't follow a set curriculum, and there are no tests.	修补学校没有固定的课程。 也没有测试。
We're not trying to teach anybody any specific thing.	我们不去尝试教任何人任何具体的事情。
When the kids arrive they're confronted with lots of stuff: wood and nails and rope and wheels, and lots of tools, real tools.	当儿童来这的时候 他们将会接触到很多东西， 木头，铁钉，绳索及轮胎， 以及很多很多工具，真正的工具。
It's a six-day immersive experience for the kids.	这六天对儿童来说是一个身临其境的体验。
And within that context, we can offer the kids time -- something that seems in short supply in their over-scheduled lives.	并在这方面，我们可以提供时间给孩子。 这些似乎就是他们所缺少的 在日程过满的生活中。
Our goal is to ensure that they leave with a better sense of how to make things than when they arrived, and the deep internal realization that you can figure things out by fooling around.	我们的目的是确保在他们离开的时候 能更好的理解怎么去建造东西 比他们来之前更好的理解， 以及一个扎根于内心的领悟 那就是你瞎忙也可以搞明白一件事情。
Nothing ever turns out as planned ... ever.	从没有任何事情是按照计划运行的，从来没有。
And the kids soon learn that all projects go awry -- and become at ease with the idea that every step in a project is a step closer to sweet success, or gleeful calamity.	笑 然后孩子们马上就发现 所有的项目都出了差错 -- 笑 但同时也造就了一个轻松的想法，那就是 在项目中的每一个过程 都让你向甜蜜的成功靠拢， 或者是一个欣喜的灾难。
We start from doodles and sketches.	我们从涂鸦和草图开始。
And sometimes we make real plans.	有时候我们也做一些真正的计划。
And sometimes we just start building.	有时候我们直接从建造开始。
Building is at the heart of the experience: hands on, deeply immersed and fully committed to the problem at hand.	建造是体验的核心。 动起手来，把自己深深的浸入 和全力的投入到你手头的问题里。
Robin and I, acting as collaborators, keep the landscape of the projects tilted towards completion.	罗宾和我，就像合作伙伴， 保持着这些项目 向完成的方向进军。
Success is in the doing, and failures are celebrated and analyzed.	成功就在过程中。 我们庆祝和分析失败。
Problems become puzzles and obstacles disappear.	问题变成一个个迷题 紧接着障碍消除了。
When faced with particularly difficult setbacks or complexities, a really interesting behavior emerges: decoration.	当我们遇到特定的困难的时候 比如说挫折或复杂时， 一个十分有趣的行为就显现出来了: 装饰。
Decoration of the unfinished project is a kind of conceptual incubation.	笑 装饰那些未完成的作品 是一种概念般的孵化。
From these interludes come deep insights and amazing new approaches to solving the problems that had them frustrated just moments before.	从这些间隙中产生了更深的见解 以及解决问题的新奇尝试 这些问题在此之前还让人沮丧。
All materials are available for use.	我们可以运用所有的材料。
Even those mundane, hateful, plastic grocery bags can become a bridge stronger than anyone imagined.	甚至是那些平凡，可恨的塑料购物袋 也可以变为一个桥梁 而且任何人都没想到可以如此坚固。
And the things that they build amaze even themselves.	有时候我们对我们自己所建造的东西 感到惊讶。
Three, two, one, go!	影片中: 三，二，一，发射！
Gever Tulley: A rollercoaster built by seven-year-olds.	基弗尔·杜雷: 一个7岁小孩造的过山车。
Yay!	影片中: 耶！
GT: Thank you. It's been a great pleasure.	掌声 基弗尔·杜雷:谢谢你们。这是我的荣幸。
	掌声
I don't know what the hell I'm doing here.	我压根儿不明白我到底来这儿干嘛
I was born in a Scots Presbyterian ghetto in Canada, and dropped out of high school. I don't own a cell phone, and I paint on paper using gouache, which hasn't changed in 600 years.	我出生在加拿大一个苏格兰长老会贫民窟 高中就辍学了。我没有手机。 另外，我用水粉在纸上画画，这工艺六百年来都没变过
But about three years ago I had an art show in New York, and I titled it "Serious Nonsense."	但是，三年前，我在纽约有个画展。 我管它叫"严肃的胡说"
So I think I'm actually the first one here -- I lead.	所以我觉得我其实在这儿算第一人——我是始作俑者
I called it "Serious Nonsense" because on the serious side, I use a technique of painstaking realism of editorial illustration from when I was a kid. I copied it and I never unlearned it -- it's the only style I know. And it's very kind of staid and formal.	我叫它"严肃的胡说"，因为从严肃的一面来说， 我用一种细致的现实主义手法进行社论式地描绘 是我还小的时候学的，我反复使用它，从没放弃过。 这是我知道的唯一一种画风。它是很保守很正统的。
And meanwhile, I use nonsense, as you can see.	与此同时呢，你发现，我也用了"胡说"
This is a Scottish castle where people are playing golf indoors, and the trick was to bang the golf ball off of suits of armor -- which you can't see there.	这是一座苏格兰城堡，人们在里面玩高尔夫 规则是要把高尔夫球从一身中世纪铠甲上打下来 你们在那儿可能看不太清
This was one of a series called "Zany Afternoons," which became a book.	这是我的系列图画"滑稽下午"中的一幅，后来出了书
This is a home-built rocket-propelled car. That's a 1953 Henry J -- I'm a bug for authenticity -- in a quiet neighborhood in Toledo.	这叫家装火箭推进车。这是辆1953年产的亨利J 在拖雷多一个安静的社区中——我重视本真性
This is my submission for the L.A. Museum of Film.	这幅是我提交的洛杉矶电影博物馆设计图
You can probably tell Frank Gehry and I come from the same town.	你都能看出来，我和弗兰克 盖里是从一个地方来的。
My work is so personal and so strange that I have to invent my own lexicon for it.	我的作品很个性化很奇特 所以我不得不为它发明新的词汇
And I work a lot in what I call "retrofuturism," which is looking back to see how yesterday viewed tomorrow.	我创作了很多，我称之为"复古未来主义" 就是回顾一下昨天是怎么看明天的
And they're always wrong, always hilariously, optimistically wrong.	他们总是犯错，总是以很搞笑、乐观地方式犯着错
And the peak time for that was the 30s, because the Depression was so dismal that anything to get away from the present into the future ...	最高潮的时间是三十年代 因为大萧条太凄凉了 任何东西只要能把大家从现在带进未来
and technology was going to carry us along.	科技就是这样的东西
This is Popular Workbench. Popular science magazines in those days -- I had a huge collection of them from the '30s -- all they are is just poor people being asked to make sunglasses out of wire coat hangers and everything improvised and dreaming about these wonderful giant radio robots playing ice hockey at 300 miles an hour -- it's all going to happen, it's all going to be wonderful.	这是本《大众工作间》，一本当时很流行的科学杂志， 我收集了很多这样的三十年代的杂志 这些可怜的人，就像叫他们用晾衣架的铁丝来造墨镜一样 都是即兴创作 梦想着这些神奇的巨大的无线电机器人 以每小时300英里的时速玩儿着冰球 都会实现的，都会变得妙极了
Automotive retrofuturism is one of my specialties.	机动类复古未来主义是我的特长之一
I was both an automobile illustrator and an advertising automobile copywriter, so I have a lot of revenge to take on the subject.	因为我既是一个汽车插画画家，又是一个汽车广告文案 所以对这个主题我有点儿报复性心理
Detroit has always been halfway into the future -- the advertising half.	底特律总是已经有一只脚踏进未来了——广告中的那只脚——
This is the '58 Bulgemobile: so new, they make tomorrow look like yesterday.	这是58年的Bulgemobile车：多新，他们让明天看上去像昨天
This is a chain gang of guys admiring the car.	这是一票爱车族在膜拜这辆车。
That's from a whole catalog -- it's 18 pages or so -- ran back in the days of the Lampoon, where I cut my teeth.	那是从一整本目录册里来的，有差不多18页 回到我在《国家讽刺周刊》的日子，我那时候还把牙给磕了
Techno-archaeology is digging back and finding past miracles that never happened -- for good reason, usually.	科技-考古的意思是说挖掘以前，找寻过去从未发生过的奇迹 当然通常是出于善意的。
The zeppelin -- this was from a brochure about the zeppelin based, obviously, on the Hindenburg.	齐柏林飞艇 - 这是从一个关于飞艇的小册子上来的 很显然，是取材于"兴登堡号"
But the zeppelin was the biggest thing that ever moved made by man.	飞艇是人类创造的会动的最大玩意儿
And it carried 56 people at the speed of a Buick at an altitude you could hear dogs bark, and it cost twice as much as a first-class cabin on the Normandie to fly it.	它能载56人，速度和一辆别克差不多，飞行高度能让你听见狗叫 另外想坐它飞，要比坐巨轮"诺曼底号"的头等舱还贵两倍
So the Hindenburg wasn't, you know, it was inevitable it was going to go.	所以"兴登堡号"（惨剧）不是，你知道，它是不可避免，必将发生的。
This is auto-gyro jousting in Malibu in the 30s.	这是1930年马里布的自转旋翼机长枪比武大赛
The auto-gyro couldn't wait for the invention of the helicopter, but it should have -- it wasn't a big success.	这个旋翼机还没等到直升飞机的发明， 但是它应该等等——它不是个巨大的成功
It's the only Spanish innovation, technologically, of the 20th century, by the way.	这是西班牙唯一的发明，科技类的，20世纪里，题外话
You needed to know that.	你要知道
The flying car which never got off the ground -- it was a post-war dream.	飞车从没离开过地面——算是后二战时代的一个梦吧
My old man used to tell me we were going to get a flying car.	我老爸曾经告诉我，我们将来会有一辆飞车
This is pitched into the future from 1946, looking at the day all American families have them.	这是从1946年跌进未来 看看将来，每个美国家庭都能拥有他们
"There's Moscow, Shirley. Hope they speak Esperanto!"	插画的题注："到莫斯科啦，雪莉，希望他们说世界语。"
Faux-nostalgia, which I'm sort of -- not, say, famous for, but I work an awful lot in it.	山寨怀旧，我其实，不是说成名于此吧，但是我画了很多这类的作品
It's the achingly sentimental yearning for times that never happened.	那是一种对从未发生的过去柔情百转的留恋
Somebody once said that nostalgia is the one utterly most useless human emotion -- so I think that's a case for serious play.	有人曾经说过，怀旧是一种最最没用的人类情感 所以我觉得正好押住这个"严肃游戏"的主题
This is emblematic of it -- this is wing dining, recalling those balmy summer days somewhere over France in the 20s, dining on the wing of a plane. You can't see it very well here, but that's Hemingway reading some pages from his new novel to Fitzgerald and Ford Madox Ford until the slipstream blows him away.	这是其中有代表性的一个——这个叫机翼餐 回想起20年代的法国，那些温暖的夏日 在飞机的机翼上进餐。你在那儿可能看不太清 但是海明威正在朗读他的新小说 给菲茨杰拉德和福特 马多克斯 福特听，直到他被螺旋桨滑流吹走
This is tank polo in the South Hamptons.	这是南汉普顿的坦克马球，这是
The brainless rich are more fun to make fun of than anybody. I do a lot of that.	开没脑子的有钱人的玩笑，比开其他人玩笑都好玩儿。我老干这事儿
And authenticity is a major part of my serious nonsense.	还有，本真性是我"严肃的胡说"的一个重要部分
I think it adds a huge amount.	我觉得它给我的作品增色不少
Those, for example, are Mark IV British tanks from 1916.	那些，你比如，就是1916年英产的马克四型坦克
They had two machine guns and a cannon, and they had 90 horsepower Ricardo engines.	他们有两个机关枪和一个加农炮 还有90马力里卡多引擎
They went five miles an hour and inside it was 105 degrees in the pitch dark.	他们每小时只能走五英里，里面有华氏105度，一片漆黑
And they had a canary hung inside the thing to make sure the Germans weren't going to use gas.	他们这里面还挂着个金丝雀 以防德国人使用毒气。
Happy little story, isn't it?	多喜兴的小故事啊，不是么？
This is Motor Ritz Towers in Manhattan in the 30s, where you drove up to your front door, if you had the guts.	这是三十年代的曼哈顿，奢华的还能进车的丽兹大厦 你有胆的话，可以开车直达你房间的正门
Anybody who was anybody had an apartment there.	丽兹大厦有公寓的人非富则贵
I managed to stick in both the zeppelin and an ocean liner out of sheer enthusiasm.	纯粹为了个人喜好，我还想方设法把飞艇和一个巨轮给画进去了
And I love cigars -- there's a cigar billboard down there.	我喜欢雪茄，那下面还有个雪茄的广告牌
And faux-nostalgia works even in serious subjects like war.	山寨怀旧还能用在很多严肃的主题上，比如说战争
This is those wonderful days of the Battle of Britain in 1940, when a Messerschmitt ME109 bursts into the House of Commons and buzzes around, just to piss off Churchill, who's down there somewhere.	这是1940年不列颠之战中的那些好日子 当梅塞斯密特Me-109型战斗机闯进英国下议院 嗡嗡做响，就为了气一气坐在下面的丘吉尔，
It's a fond memory of times past.	多么美妙的"往事"啊
Hyperbolic overkill is a way of taking exaggeration to the absolute ultimate limit, just for the fun of it. This was a piece I did -- a brochure again -- "RMS Tyrannic: The Biggest Thing in All the World."	巨无霸是一种把夸张伸展到绝对极限的表达方式 就为了它的好玩儿。这幅画我画的，又是一个小册子 英国皇家邮轮泰霸尼克号，世上最大的玩意儿
The copy, which you can't see because it goes on and on for several pages, says that steerage passengers can't get their to bunks before the voyage is over, and it's so safe it carries no insurance.	这一版，你没法儿看，因为它就这么下去好多好多页 说下等舱的乘客还没到他们的铺位呢，整个行程已经结束了 它太安全都不需要保险
It's obviously modeled on the Titanic.	这原型当然是泰坦尼克号
But it's not a cri de coeur about man's hubris in the face of the elements.	但是它不是对人类夜郎自大的心灵恸哭
It's just a sick, silly joke.	它就是一个疯疯癫癫，傻了吧唧的笑话
Shamelessly cheap is something, I think -- this will wake you up.	不知廉耻的低俗是，我觉得，绝对能把你叫醒的
It has no meaning, just -- Desoto discovers the Mississippi, and it's a Desoto discovering the Mississippi.	它没有什么任何意义，就是，迪索托发现密西西比 而这就是，一辆迪索托汽车发现密西西比河
I did that as a quick back page -- I had like four hours to do a back page for an issue of the Lampoon, and I did that, and I thought, "Well, I'm ashamed. I hope nobody knows it."	我是速成的这个封底画，我当时只有四个小时画一个封底 为一期《国家讽刺周刊》，我就画了它 我想："就这样吧，虽然很惭愧，希望没人注意到。"
People wrote in for reprints of that thing.	结果居然有读者写信来要求再版那幅画。
Urban absurdism -- that's what the New Yorker really calls for.	城市荒诞主义——这是纽约客给它取的大名儿
I try to make life in New York look even weirder than it is with those covers.	我画这些封面的时候，试图让纽约的生活看上去比实际上更光怪陆离
I've done about 40 of them, and I'd say 30 of them are based on that concept.	我画了大概40幅左右，其中有大概30幅是基于这个理念
I was driving down 7th Avenue one night at 3 a.m., and this steam pouring out of the street, and I thought, "What causes that?" And that -- who's to say?	我有一次夜里三点开车过第七街 就看见一股蒸汽从地下冒出来，然后我就想："这是什么造成的呢？"之后—— 谁又能说什么呢？
The Temple of Dendur at the Metropolitan in New York -- it's a very somber place.	纽约大都会博物馆里的古埃及顿都神庙——是个很阴郁的地方
I thought I could jazz it up a bit, have a little fun with it.	我就想把它弄活泼点儿，搞得有意思点儿
This is a very un-PC cover. Not in New York.	这封面很不合时宜，至少在纽约不合适。
I couldn't resist, and I got a nasty email from some environmental group saying, "This is too serious and solemn to make fun of. You should be ashamed, please apologize on our website."	我是实在忍不住要画，之后我收到一封从什么环保组织发来的烦人电邮 "这个问题神圣不可搞笑，你应该感到惭愧 请在我们的网站上道歉"
Haven't got around to it yet but -- I may.	我一直没时间做这件事儿——但说不定我会
This is the word side of my brain.	这是我大脑中文字的一面
I love the word "Eurotrash."	（笑声) 我喜欢这个词"欧洲滥人"
That's all the Eurotrash coming through JFK customs.	这是所有"欧洲滥人"经纽约肯尼迪机场入海关时的特别通道
This was the New York bike messenger meeting the Tour de France.	这是纽约自行车递送小弟迎战环法自行车大赛
If you live in New York, you know how the bike messengers move.	如果你住在纽约，你就知道这些递送员是怎么辗转腾挪的
Except that he's carrying a tube for blueprints and stuff -- they all do -- and a lot of people thought that meant it was a terrorist about to shoot rockets at the Tour de France -- sign of our times, I guess.	除了他们还会背个装图纸一类的画筒——他们全都这样 很多读者还以为他是恐怖分子 正要向环法自行车赛发射火箭炮呢 算是我们时代的印记了，我猜
This is the only fashion cover I've ever done.	这是我画的唯一一个时尚封面
It's the little old lady that lives in a shoe, and then this thing -- the title of that was, "There Goes the Neighborhood."	这些老太太们住在鞋里面，然后出来这么个东西 这个题目叫："瞧瞧那个小区"
I don't know a hell of a lot about fashion -- I was told to do what they call a Mary Jane, and then I got into this terrible fight between the art director and the editor saying: because it obscures the logo and looks terrible and it's bad and -- I finally chickened out and did it for the sake of the authenticity of the shoe.	对时尚，我懂得不多 我被叫来画一个被她们称作玛丽简的鞋 之后我被卷进艺术总监和总编的一场旷日持久的争论中 因为要的话就会挡住杂志标题，而且看上去也不美，不好 但是我最后还是打退堂鼓了，为了保证这个鞋的本真性
This is a tiny joke -- E-ZR pass. One letter makes an idea.	这是一个小玩笑——"更"快捷收费站，一字之差就是个好主意
This is a big joke.	这是个大玩笑
This is the audition for "King Kong."	这是金刚的试镜现场
People always ask me, where do you get your ideas, how do your ideas come?	总有人问我，你都是哪里找到灵感的，你怎么想到这些点子的
Truth about that one is I had a horrible red wine hangover, in the middle of the night, this came to me like a Xerox -- all I had to do was write it down.	说实在的，这是在有一天我喝红酒宿醉 大半夜，这个想法突然闪现——我唯一要做的就是把它写下来
It was perfectly clear. I didn't do any thinking about it.	清晰无比，我想都不需要想
And then when it ran, a lovely lady, an old lady named Mrs. Edgar Rosenberg -- if you know that name -- called me and said she loved the cover, it was so sweet.	出版以后，一个可爱的女士，叫埃德加 罗森伯格女士 如果你知道她是谁的话——打电话给我，跟我说她特别喜欢这幅画，太贴心了
Her former name was Fay Wray, and so that was -- I didn't have the wit to say, "Take the painting."	她以前叫菲伊·雷，（1933年版金刚的女主角），所以呢 我当时傻了吧唧的，也没说，"把画拿走吧"
Finally, this was a three-page cover, never done before, and I don't think it will ever be done again -- successive pages in the front of the magazine.	最后，这是个三页的封面，以前从来没做过 我估计也不会再有了 连页的杂志封面
It's the ascent of man using an escalator, and it's in three parts.	这是《人类的攀升》利用了一个自动扶梯，分三个部分
You can't see it all together, unfortunately, but if you look at it enough, you can sort of start to see how it actually starts to move.	你没法一下看全，遗憾的是，但是如果你看得足够久 你就能发现它实际上是会动的
Pretty elegant. Nothing like a crash to end a joke. That completes my oeuvre.	不错吧，什么都没有最后摔一跤更适合结束一个笑话。这就是我的艺术生涯。
I would just like to add a crass commercial -- I have a kids' book coming out in the fall called "Marvel Sandwiches," a compendium of all the serious play that ever was, and it's going to be available in fine bookstores, crummy bookstores, tables on the street in October.	我还想贸然插一个的广告 我马上有个儿童读物今年秋天要出了，叫"神奇的三明治" 算是对所有"严肃游戏"的提纲携领吧 在高雅的，不高雅的书店 路边的书报亭有售，尽在十月
So thank you very much.	非常感谢
So magic is a very introverted field.	魔术是个很不爱交际的领域
While scientists regularly publish their latest research, we magicians do not like to share our methods and secrets.	科学家们通常发表他们的最新研究 我们魔术师却不愿公开手法和秘密
That's true even amongst peers.	特别是同行之间
But if you look at creative practice as a form of research, or art as a form of R&amp;D for humanity, then how could a cyber illusionist like myself share his research?	但你如果将创造性的表演看作是种研究 或者把艺术看作人类研发的一种形式 那么象我这个网络魔术师 怎么分享研究呢？
Now my own speciality is combining digital technology and magic.	我的专长是将数码技术和魔术结合起来
And about three years ago, I started an exercise in openness and inclusiveness by reaching out into the open-source software community to create new digital tools for magic -- tools that could eventually be shared with other artists to start them off further on in the process and to get them to the poetry faster.	大约3年前 我开始寻求 开放和包容 通过开源软件社区 来为魔术创造新工具－ 这些工具能帮助其他艺术家 在艺术的道路上走更远 更快地进入诗意
Today, I'd like to show you something which came out of these collaborations.	今天我要展示的就是一个据此创作的作品
It's an augmented reality projection tracking and mapping system, or a digital storytelling tool.	非常具有真实感 投影追踪和测绘系统 或者说是个数码讲故事的工具
Could we bring down the lights please? Thank you.	请关下灯好吗？谢谢
So let's give this a try.	先试一下
And I'm going to use it to give you my take on the stuff of life.	给以此 给个镜头 展示下生命物质
Terribly sorry. I forgot the floor.	非常抱歉 忘了画地板
Wake up.	醒来吧
Hey.	你好
Come on.	走吧
Please.	请吧
Come on.	来吧
Ah, sorry about that.	啊 不好意思
Forgot this.	忘了这个
Give it another try.	再试一下
Okay.	好吧
He figured out the system.	他弄明白怎么回事了
Uh oh.	啊哦
All right. Let's try this.	好吧 试试这个
Come on.	来吧
Hey.	嗨
You heard her, go ahead.	你听见了，鼓起勇气吧
Bye-bye.	再见
Thank you.	谢谢。
Slide into the shimmering surface between two worlds. Standing at the center of time as it uncurls. Cutting through the veil of illusion. Moving beyond past conclusions. Wondering if all my doubt and confusion will clear. If I could be anywhere, if I could be anywhere, if I could be anywhere right now, I would want to be here. Searching for the future among the things we're throwing away. Trying to see the world through the junk we produce everyday. They say nothing lasts forever, but all the plastic ever made is still here. And no amount of closing our eyes will make it disappear. If I could be anywhere, if I could be anywhere, if I could be anywhere in history, I would want to be here. The Romans, the Spanish the British, the Dutch, American exceptionalism, so out of touch. The folly of empire repeating its course, imposing its will and ruling by force on and on through time. But the world can't take it very much longer. We're not going to make it unless we're smarter and stronger. The world is going to shake itself free of our greed somehow. If I could be anywhere, if I could be anywhere in time, if I could be anywhere and change things, it would have to be now. They say nothing last forever, but all the plastic ever made is still here. And no amount of closing our eyes will make it disappear. And the world can't take it very much longer. We're not going to make it unless we're smarter and stronger. The world's gonna shake itself free of our greed somehow. And the world can't take it, that you can see. If the oceans don't make it, neither will we. The world's gonna shake itself all the way free somehow. If I could be anywhere, if I could be anywhere in time, if I could be anywhere and change the outcome, it would have to be now. Thank you.	慢慢陷入那微微发光的表面 恍如两个世界 站在时光中间 看着它无限延展 透过幻觉的面纱 抛开过去的论断 不知能否解开我的困惑 如果我能到任何地方 如果我能到任何地方 如果我此刻能到任何地方 这里便是我愿去的地方 在我们抛弃的事物中 寻找未来 试着透过我们每天 产生废弃物来看这个世界 都说没有什么可以永远 但塑料垃圾却一直存在着 在怎么闭上我们的双眼 也无法让它消失 如果我能去任何地方 如果我能去任何地方 如果我能穿越时空，到达任何地方 这里便是我愿去的地方 罗马人，西班牙人 英国人，荷兰人 美国例外，所以我们不谈 荒唐的故事还在一遍遍上演 强加意愿 暴力统治 不断上演 但我们的世界已无法承受 除非我们能更加聪明强大 否则我们将无法幸免 世界将通过它的方式 摆脱我们的贪婪 如果我能去任何地方 如果我能立刻到达任何地方 如果我能去任何地方，改变些什么 我必须立刻启程 都说没有什么可以永远 但塑料垃圾却一直存在着 即使你闭上双眼 也无法让它少一点点 我们的世界 已无法承受多久 除非我们能更加聪明强大 否则我们将无法幸免 世界将通过它的方式 摆脱我们的贪婪 你会看到我们的世界已无法承受 如果海洋都束手无策，我们也将无法拯救 世界将通过它的方式 摆脱我们的贪婪 如果我能去任何地方 如果我能立刻到达任何地方 如果我能去任何地方，改变结果 我必须立刻启程 谢谢。
If you're here today -- and I'm very happy that you are -- you've all heard about how sustainable development will save us from ourselves. However, when we're not at TED, we are often told that a real sustainability policy agenda is just not feasible, especially in large, urban areas like New York City.	假若你今天有幸来此--我对你的到来亦是甚喜－－ 你们一定听说过可持续发展可以拯救我们的生活 然而，我们不在TED的时候 我们一定听说现实中的可持续发展议程并没有可行性 特别是在大的城市，比如纽约
And that's because most people with decision-making powers, in both the public and the private sector, really don't feel as though they're in danger.	这是因为大多数的决策者们 不管是公共还是私人部门 都没有真的意识到他们正处于危险境地
The reason why I'm here today, in part, is because of a dog: an abandoned puppy I found back in the rain, back in 1998.	我今天之所以在此，其中一个原因，是因为一只狗 是我在1998年在雨中捡到的被遗弃的小狗
She turned out to be a much bigger dog than I'd anticipated.	它已经长成了一只大狗，比我想象的要大
When she came into my life, we were fighting against a huge waste facility planned for the East River waterfront, despite the fact that our small part of New York City already handled more than 40 percent of the entire city's commercial waste: a sewage treatment pelletizing plant, a sewage sludge plant, four power plants, the world's largest food distribution center, as well as other industries that bring more than 60,000 diesel truck trips to the area each week.	它刚刚来的时候，我们正在抗议计划建于东河海滨的巨型垃圾处理场 尽管事实上我们这个区域 已经处理了整个纽约市超过40%的商业垃圾 一个废水处理球团矿厂、一个污泥处理厂，四个发电厂， 世界上最大的食品分销中心 还有其他行业每周有超过6万辆的柴油车开到这里
The area also has one of the lowest ratios of parks to people in the city.	这里也是纽约市公园占地率最低的地区
So when I was contacted by the Parks Department about a $10,000 seed grant initiative seed grant initiative to help develop waterfront projects, I thought they were really well-meaning, but a bit naive.	所以，当公园管理处联系到我 用1万美元的种子启动资金来开发海滨时 我觉得这确实是善举，但是有些天真
I'd lived in this area all my life, and you could not get to the river because of all the lovely facilities that I'd mentioned earlier.	我一生都住在这个地区，但是却不能到河里去 都是因为我先前提到的那些垃圾处理厂
Then, while jogging with my dog one morning, she pulled me into what I thought was just another illegal dump.	一天早上，我和我的狗去慢跑 她拖着我往河里走，我想这仅仅是又一次非法的倾倒垃圾
There were weeds and piles of garbage and other stuff that I won't mention here, but she kept dragging me -- and lo and behold, at the end of that lot was the river.	到处都是野草和成堆的垃圾以及其他的东西，这里我就不想说了 但是，她一直拖着我——啊，瞧瞧，在垃圾的尽头就是河流啊
I knew that this forgotten little street-end, abandoned like the dog that brought me there, was worth saving.	我知道这条被遗忘的死胡同 就像是拽我到这里的这条狗一样，被遗弃了，而且是值得拯救的
And I knew it would grow to become the proud beginnings of the community-led revitalization of the new South Bronx.	而且我也知道这将是令人自豪的开始 有社区发起的使新South Bronx焕发生机
And just like my new dog, it was an idea that got bigger than I'd imagined.	就像我的狗一样，这个主意比我预想的要博大得多。
We garnered much support along the way.	一路上我们得到了很多的支持
And the Hunts Point Riverside Park became the first waterfront park that the South Bronx had had in more than 60 years.	而且Hunts Point海滨公园成了South Bronx六十年以来的 第一个海滨公园
We leveraged that $10,000 seed grant more than 300 times into a $3 million park.	我们的一万元的启动资金，增加了超过300倍，变成了一个价值300万的公园
And, in the fall, I'm actually going to -- I exchange marriage vows with my beloved. Thank you very much.	而且，这个秋天，我实际上打算—— 和我心爱的人结婚。谢谢大家
That's him pressing my buttons back there, which he does all the time.	是他一直在背后支持着我，他一直这样。
But those of us living in environmental justice communities are the canary in the coalmine. We feel the problems right now, and have for some time.	但是，我们这些生活在环境正义社区里的人们 就像是煤矿中金丝雀。我们现在发现的这个问题，其实已经存在好久了
Environmental justice, for those of you who may not be familiar with the term, goes something like this: no community should be saddled with more environmental burdens and less environmental benefits than any other.	环境正义对于你们而言，可能是并不太熟悉的名词 没有一个社区应该承担过多的环境负担 而享受更少的福利
Unfortunately, race and class are extremely reliable indicators as to where one might find the good stuff, like parks and trees, and where one might find the bad stuff, like power plants and waste facilities.	不幸的是，种族和阶级成了最可靠的指示剂 就像是哪里能找到好的东西，如公园和树 哪里能找到不好的东西，比如发电厂和垃圾处理厂
As a black person in America, I am twice as likely as a white person to live in an area where air pollution poses the greatest risk to my health.	身为美国的一个黑人，我有两倍于白人的可能性 居住在一个空气污染严重威胁我健康的地区
I am five times more likely to live within walking distance of a power plant or chemical facility -- which I do.	我有五倍高于白人的可能性会居住在 离发电厂和化工厂近在咫尺的地方——而且确实如此
These land-use decisions created the hostile conditions that lead to problems like obesity, diabetes and asthma.	这些土地使用决策造成了很恶劣的环境，这导致了很多的问题 比如肥胖、糖尿病和哮喘
Why would someone leave their home to go for a brisk walk in a toxic neighborhood?	哪里还有人离开家在有毒的社区快速的行走呢？
Our 27 percent obesity rate is high, even for this country, and diabetes comes with it.	我们27%的肥胖率是相当高的，即使就全国范围而言也是相当高的，糖尿病随之而来
One out of four South Bronx children has asthma.	South Bronx的孩子，四个中的一个就有哮喘
Our asthma hospitalization rate is seven times higher than the national average.	我们的哮喘住院率是全国平均水平的7倍
These impacts are coming everyone's way.	这些影响每个人都会遇到
And we all pay dearly for solid waste costs, health problems associated with pollution and more odiously, the cost of imprisoning our young black and Latino men, who possess untold amounts of untapped potential.	我们为固体废料的花费 与环境相关的健康问题发出了高昂的代价， 更可恨的是，为监禁这些年轻的黑人和拉美人说支付的开支 这些人拥有着说不清的未开发的潜能
50 percent of our residents live at or below the poverty line.	我们50%的居民生活在贫困线或贫困线以下
25 percent of us are unemployed. Low-income citizens often use emergency room visits as primary care.	25%的人没有工作。低收入的市民仅仅把 急诊室作为他们的基本医疗
This comes at a high cost to taxpayers and produces no proportional benefits.	这就造成纳税人上缴了很多，却没有相应比例的获利
Poor people are not only still poor; they are still unhealthy.	穷人不仅仅是穷，而且也不健康
Fortunately, there are many people like me who are striving for solutions that won't compromise the lives of low-income communities of color in the short term, and won't destroy us all in the long term.	幸运的是，像我这样的很多人正在努力寻找解决办法 这在短期内不能危害到有色人种低收入社区的生活 也不会最终完全毁掉我们
None of us want that, and we all have that in common. So what else do we have in common?	我们没有人想那样，这是我们的共同点。那么我们还有什么共同点呢？
Well, first of all, we're all incredibly good-looking -- -- graduated high school, college, post-graduate degrees, traveled to interesting places, didn't have kids in your early teens, financially stable, never been imprisoned. OK.	首先，毫无疑问的是，我们都长得惊人地好看 ——我们都获得了高中、大学和研究生的学位 到有意思的地方去旅行，没有在十多岁就有了孩子 财务状况稳定，没有进过监狱。好的
Good.	非常好
But, besides being a black woman, I am different from most of you in some other ways.	但是，作为一个黑人妇女，我在其他方面跟你们中的大多数不同
I watched nearly half of the buildings in my neighborhood burn down.	我亲眼看见我邻居的近半个房子被烧成灰烬
My big brother Lenny fought in Vietnam, only to be gunned down a few blocks from our home.	我征战越南战场的大哥哥Lenny 在离我家几个街区远的地方被枪杀
Jesus. I grew up with a crack house across the street.	老天。我在街对面的一个危房里长大
Yeah, I'm a poor black child from the ghetto.	是的，我是从贫民窟来的一个贫穷的黑人小孩
These things make me different from you.	这些东西让我显得与你不同
But the things we have in common set me apart from most of the people in my community, and I am in between these two worlds, with enough of my heart to fight for justice in the other.	但是我所提到的那些共同点把我和我社区的其他大多数人区分开来 我介于两个世界之间 我有足够的勇气去为了另一个世界争取正义
So how did things get so different for us?	那么，世界是如何把我们变得不一样的？
In the late '40s, my dad -- a Pullman porter, son of a slave -- bought a house in the Hunts Point section of the South Bronx, and a few years later he married my mom.	40年代后期，我的父亲——一个帕尔曼酒店的服务生，奴隶的儿子—— 在South Bronx的Hunts Point街区买了房子 几年后，他娶了我的母亲
At the time, the community was a mostly white, working-class neighborhood.	那个时候，这个社区是一个几乎是白人的工人阶级社区
My dad was not alone.	我的父亲并不孤单
And as others like him pursued their own version of the American dream, white flight became common in the South Bronx and in many cities around the country.	跟其他寻找美国梦的人一样 白人大迁徙在South Bronx和全国其他城市成了一种常态
Red-lining was used by banks, wherein certain sections of the city, including ours, were deemed off-limits to any sort of investment.	银行被拉了红线，市里的特定区域 包括我们的，都成了投资的禁区
Many landlords believed it was more profitable to torch their buildings and collect insurance money rather than to sell under those conditions -- dead or injured former tenants notwithstanding.	很多房东坚信烧掉他们的房子更加有利可图 他们宁可领取保险金，也不愿意在这种情况下卖掉房子—— 不管前租客死了还是受伤
Hunts Point was formerly a walk-to-work community, but now residents had neither work nor home to walk to.	Hunts Point以前是一个步行上班的社区 但是现在人们既没有工作，也无家可归
A national highway construction boom was added to our problems.	一个全国公路建设热给我们雪上加霜
In New York State, Robert Moses spearheaded an aggressive highway expansion campaign.	在纽约州，Robert Moses成立了一家有野心的公路发展公司
One of its primary goals was to make it easier for residents of wealthy communities in Westchester County to go to Manhattan.	他的其中一个目标是让居住在Westchester县的富人们 到曼哈顿更加方便
The South Bronx, which lies in between, did not stand a chance.	South Bronx，位于两者之间，当然无法幸免
Residents were often given less than a month's notice before their buildings were razed.	居民们的房屋通常会在收到通知的不到一个月内被夷为平地
600,000 people were displaced.	60万人无家可归
The common perception was that only pimps and pushers and prostitutes were from the South Bronx.	当时给人们的印象就是，只有皮条客、非法推销员和妓女才来自这个地区
And if you are told from your earliest days that nothing good is going to come from your community, that is bad and ugly, how could it not reflect on you?	如果在你还小的时候被告知你的社区没有什么好东西 只是肮脏和丑陋的东西，你身上怎么会反映不出那些坏东西呢？
So now, my family's property was worthless, save for that it was our home and all we had.	现在，我们的财产分文不值，除了我们的家和我们自己
And luckily for me, that home and the love inside of it, along with help from teachers, mentors and friends along the way, was enough.	幸运的是，对我而言，那个家和家中的爱，以及 来自老师、教练和朋友们一路上的帮助，这就足够了
Now, why is this story important?	现在，为何这个故事如此重要？
Because from a planning perspective, economic degradation begets environmental degradation, which begets social degradation.	因为从规划的角度讲，经济恶化就 导致环境的恶化，然后就导致社会的恶化
The disinvestment that began in the 1960s set the stage for all the environmental injustices that were to come.	这次负投资开始于二十世纪六十年代 为即将到来的环境不公平打下了基础
Antiquated zoning and land-use regulations are still used to this day to continue putting polluting facilities in my neighborhood.	老旧的街区划分和土地使用政策一直沿用到今天 继续在我们的周围建造产生污染的各种处理厂
Are these factors taken into consideration when land-use policy is decided?	当制定土地政策的时候，有把这些因素考虑在内吗？
What costs are associated with these decisions? And who pays?	这些决策会产生哪些开销？谁又会为此买单？
Who profits? Does anything justify what the local community goes through?	谁有受益了？对于当地居民正经受的苦难有任何正义可言吗?
This was "planning" -- in quotes -- that did not have our best interests in mind.	这就是所谓的"规划"——加上引号——根本就没有考虑我们的利益
Once we realized that, we decided it was time to do our own planning.	当我们意识到这一点，我们决定是时候制定自己规划的时候了
That small park I told you about earlier was the first stage of building a greenway movement in the South Bronx.	我先前提到的小公园只是 在South Bronx地区进行绿化运动的第一步
I wrote a one-and-a-quarter-million dollar federal transportation grant to design the plan for a waterfront esplanade with dedicated on-street bike paths.	我写信申请一项一百二十五万的联邦交通拨款 来规划一处海滨休闲空地，配有专用的自行车道
Physical improvements help inform public policy regarding traffic safety, the placement of the waste and other facilities, which, if done properly, don't compromise a community's quality of life.	身体上的改善帮助宣传关于交通安全的公共政策 废物和其他类型的处理厂 如果建造得当，是不会损害社区的生活质量的
They provide opportunities to be more physically active, as well as local economic development.	这些将提供更多的机会，利于健康 也利于当地经济发展
Think bike shops, juice stands.	设想一下自行车商店、饮料摊
We secured 20 million dollars to build first-phase projects.	第一阶段的工程我们得到了两千万美元
This is Lafayette Avenue -- and as redesigned by Matthews-Nielsen landscape architects.	这是Lafayette大道——由Matthews-Nielsen景观设计师重新设计
And once this path is constructed, it'll connect the South Bronx with more than 400 acres of Randall's Island Park.	一旦这条道路修建起来，它就把South Bronx 同超过四百英亩的Randall的内陆公园连接起来了
Right now we're separated by about 25 feet of water, but this link will change that.	现在我们被大约二十五英尺的水域隔开，但是这个连接将改变这个现状
As we nurture the natural environment, its abundance will give us back even more.	我们去精心呵护自然环境，她会回报给我们更多
We run a project called the Bronx Ecological Stewardship Training, which provides job training in the fields of ecological restorations, so that folks from our community have the skills to compete for these well-paying jobs.	我们运作了一个称为"Bronx生态管理训练"的项目 它在生态恢复方面提供了工作培训 然后，来自我们社区的人们就具有去竞争这些高薪工作的技能
Little by little, we're seeding the area with green collar jobs -- then the people that have both a financial and personal stake in their environment.	慢慢的，这个地区就会到处都能找到绿领的工作岗位 然后人们也具有财务资本和个人技能资本
The Sheridan Expressway is an underutilized relic of the Robert Moses era, built with no regard for the neighborhoods that were divided by it.	Sheridan高速公路是Robert Moses时期遗留下来的，而且没有被充分使用 修建的时候没有考虑邻里的利益，把邻里隔开
Even during rush hour, it goes virtually unused.	即使是在交通高峰期，它实际上也没有被利用起来
The community created an alternative transportation plan that allows for the removal of the highway.	社区研究了一个替代性交通规划 来拆除这条公路
We have the opportunity now to bring together all the stakeholders to re-envision how this 28 acres can be better utilized for parkland, affordable housing and local economic development.	我们现在有机会让所有的利益相关人一起 来重新设想一下这28英亩的土地更好地为公共用地、 经济适用房和当地经济发展服务
We also built the city's -- New York City's first green and cool roof demonstration project on top of our offices.	我们也建造了纽约市的第一个绿色的清凉屋顶 示范项目，它位于我们办公楼的顶层
Cool roofs are highly reflective surfaces that don't absorb solar heat and pass it on to the building or atmosphere.	清凉屋顶具有高度反射的表面，它不会吸收太阳热量 而是把它传递给建造或者大气
Green roofs are soil and living plants.	绿色屋顶都是泥土和鲜活的植被
Both can be used instead of petroleum-based roofing materials that absorb heat, contribute to urban "heat island" effect and degrade under the sun, which we in turn breathe. Green roofs also retain up to 75 percent of rainfall, so they reduce a city's need to fund costly end-of-pipe solutions -- which, incidentally, are often located in environmental justice communities like mine.	这些都可以用来替代石油为主的屋顶材料 后者吸收热量，造成城市的"热岛"效应，然后在太阳底下 降解成我们呼吸的空气。绿色屋顶也能留住75%的雨水 这也有助于城市减少地下管道设施的高昂支出 这些设施恰好在环境正义的社区就能看到，比如说我居住的社区
And they provide habitats for our little friends!	而且绿色屋顶也给我们的小朋友提供了栖息场所
So -- -- so cool!	所以————相当酷
Anyway, the demonstration project is a springboard for our own green roof installation business, bringing jobs and sustainable economic activity to the South Bronx.	总之，这项示范项目是我们的绿色屋顶设施项目的开始 它给South Bronx带来了工作机会和持续的经济活动
I like that, too.	我也喜欢这个
Anyway, I know Chris told us not to do pitches up here, but since I have all of your attention: we need investors. End of pitch.	不管怎样，我知道Chris告诉我们不要再上面做修改 但是我们必须引起你们的注意：我们需要投资。修改完之后
It's better to ask for forgiveness than permission.	我们更应该寻求宽恕而不是许可
Anyway -- OK. Katrina. Prior to Katrina, the South Bronx and New Orleans' Ninth Ward had a lot in common. Both were largely populated by poor people of color, both hotbeds of cultural innovation: think hip-hop and jazz.	无论如何—— 好的。Katrina。在Katrina之前，South Bronx和新奥尔良的第九区 有太多的相似之处。两个地方都居住着大量的贫穷的有色人种 都是文化创新的温床：想想嘻哈乐和爵士
Both are waterfront communities that host both industries and residents in close proximity of one another.	都是滨海社区，其中工业区 和居民区靠的如此之近
In the post-Katrina era, we have still more in common.	在后Katrina时代，我们还是有很多相同点
We're at best ignored and maligned and abused, at worst, by negligent regulatory agencies, pernicious zoning and lax governmental accountability.	我们被最多的忽略、诽谤和滥用，最糟糕的是 都是由于疏忽的管理机构、有害的分区制和松散的政府责任
Neither the destruction of the Ninth Ward nor the South Bronx was inevitable.	无论是对第九区的破坏还是South Bronx都是必然的
But we have emerged with valuable lessons about how to dig ourselves out.	我们提供能解救我们自身的有价值的课程
We are more than simply national symbols of urban blight.	而不仅仅是城市萎缩的民族象征
Or problems to be solved by empty campaign promises of presidents come and gone.	或者是历任总统的空洞的参选承诺来解决问题
Now will we let the Gulf Coast languish for a decade or two like the South Bronx did?	现在我们会让墨西哥沿岸 像South Bronx曾经那样因渴望而苦恼等上几十年吗？
Or will we take proactive steps and learn from the homegrown resource of grassroots activists that have been born of desperation in communities like mine?	或者是向草根活动家的自身资源那里学习，主动采取行动 这些草根活动家都是从像我居住的社区一样的地方，在绝望中产生的
Now listen, I do not expect individuals, corporations or government to make the world a better place because it is right or moral.	现在听着，我们并不需要个人 公司或政府来把世界变得更好，仅仅是因为它的正确的或是道德上的
This presentation today only represents some of what I've been through, like a tiny little bit. You've no clue.	今天的演讲仅仅代表了我经历的一小部分 很小的一部分。你找不到任何线索
But I'll tell you later if you want to know.	但是如果你确实想了解，我待会儿告诉你
But -- I know it's the bottom line, or one's perception of it, that motivates people in the end.	但是——我知道这是本质，或者是一个人的见解 最后能激励其他人
I'm interested in what I like to call the "triple bottom line" that sustainable development can produce.	我 感兴趣的是，我所称呼的"三重盈利" 能产生持续性的发展
Developments that have the potential to create positive returns for all concerned: the developers, government and the community where these projects go up.	发展有可能给所有相关的人带来积极的回报 开发商、政府和项目所在地的社区
At present, that's not happening in New York City.	目前，纽约市还没有实施这个
And we are operating with a comprehensive urban planning deficit.	我们正面临全面的城市规划财政赤字
A parade of government subsidies is going to proposed big-box and stadium developments in the South Bronx, but there is scant coordination between city agencies on how to deal with the cumulative effects of increased traffic, pollution, solid waste and the impacts on open space. And their approaches to local economic and job development are so lame it's not even funny.	针对政府补贴的游行正计划提议在 South Bronx发展大型商场和体育馆 但是，市政部门直接缺乏合作 来应对日益严重的交通、污染、固体废料 和空地的影响的问题。而且他们发展当地经济 工作机会的方式如此跛脚，而不仅仅是好笑那么简单
Because on top of that, the world's richest sports team is replacing the House That Ruth Built by destroying two well-loved community parks.	因为，还有一个例子，世界上最富有的运动团体为了修建贝比鲁斯之屋 而毁掉了两个非常好的社区公园
Now, we'll have even less than that stat I told you about earlier.	现在，我们也只有少于先前提供给你们的数据
And although less than 25 percent of South Bronx residents own cars, these projects include thousands of new parking spaces, yet zip in terms of mass public transit.	尽管只有少于25%的South Bronx居民有用私车 这些项目还是包括了成千上万新的车位 仅仅是给庞大的交通系统提供一点活力
Now, what's missing from the larger debate is a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis between not fixing an unhealthy, environmentally challenged community, versus incorporating structural, sustainable changes.	现在，从大的争论中遗失的是一个全面的 成本收益分析，不是为了修复一个不健康的 危害环境的社区，而是一个合作的 建设性的，可持续性的改变
My agency is working closely with Columbia University and others to shine a light on these issues.	我的机构和哥伦比亚大学和其他机构密切合作 来在这些问题上指明出路
Now let's get this straight. I am not anti-development.	现在，让我澄清一下。我并不是一个反对发展的人
Ours is a city, not a wilderness preserve. And I've embraced my inner capitalist.	我们居住的是一个城市，而不是一个野生动物保护区。而且我信奉资本主义
You probably all have it, and if you haven't, you need to.	而且你们可能也是，如果你不是的，那你需要那样做
So I don't have a problem with developers making money.	所以我对 开发商挣钱没有任何异议
There's enough precedent out there to show that a sustainable, community-friendly development can still make a fortune.	而且先前有足够多的例子显示可持续发展的 帮助社区发展的开发是可以挣到很多钱的
Fellow TEDsters Bill McDonough and Amory Lovins -- both heroes of mine by the way -- have shown that you can actually do that.	TED的朋友Bill Mcdonough和Amory Lovins 都是这方面的楷模——都展示了你确实能在这里挣到钱
I do have a problem with developments that hyper-exploit politically vulnerable communities for profit.	但我对于那些去在政治弱势群体身上盈利 的开发商确实是有异议的
That it continues is a shame upon us all, because we are all responsible for the future that we create.	那对于我们大家而言都是一件可耻的事情 因为我们要为我们创造的一切负责任
But one of the things I do to remind myself of greater possibilities is to learn from visionaries in other cities.	但是我时常提醒我自己的一件事就是，最大可能的从其他城市的愿景规划中学到东西
This is my version of globalization.	这是我的全球化设想
Let's take Bogota. Poor, Latino, surrounded by runaway gun violence and drug trafficking: a reputation not unlike that of the South Bronx.	让我们看看波哥大，一个平穷的拉丁语地区，到处都是枪支犯罪 和毒品走私：跟South Bronx的名声差不多
However, this city was blessed in the late 1990s with a highly influential mayor named Enrique Penalosa.	然而，这个城市在二十世纪90年代受惠于 一个高度有影响力的市长，名叫Enrique Penalosa
He looked at the demographics.	他查看了人口统计资料
Few Bogatanos own cars, yet a huge portion of the city's resources was dedicated to serving them.	很少的波哥大人拥有汽车，但是很大比例的城市资源是专为他们服务的
If you're a mayor, you can do something about that.	如果你是市长，你当然能做一些事情
His administration narrowed key municipal thoroughfares from five lanes to three, outlawed parking on those streets, expanded pedestrian walkways and bike lanes, created public plazas, created one of the most efficient bus mass-transit systems in the entire world.	他把主要的市内车道从五车道变成了三车道 禁止在这些街道停车，扩宽人行道 和自行车道，修建公共广场 创建了世界上最高效的公共汽车交通系统
For his brilliant efforts, he was nearly impeached.	由于他出色的政绩，她差点被调查
But as people began to see that they were being put first on issues reflecting their day-to-day lives, incredible things happened.	但是人们开始发现他们开始把日常生活中的事情 放在第一位，不可思议的事情发生了
People stopped littering; crime rates dropped -- because the streets were alive with people.	人们不再乱扔垃圾。犯罪率下降了。 街道因为大家而生机勃勃
His administration attacked several typical urban problems at one time, and on a third-world budget at that.	他的政策一次性解决了很多典型的城市问题 而且使用一个第三世界国家的财力解决的
We have no excuse in this country. I'm sorry.	我们在这样一个国家没有任何借口。对不起
But the bottom line is: their people-first agenda was not meant to penalize those who could actually afford cars, but rather to provide opportunities for all Bogatanos to participate in the city's resurgence. That development should not come at the expense of the majority of the population is still considered a radical idea here in the US.	但是实质是，他们人民的首要议程不是 惩罚那些拥有车辆的人 而是让所有的波哥大人参与进来 让城市恢复活力。发展不应该以牺牲 大多数人的利益为代价。这也是美国人民普遍认可的观点
But Bogota's example has the power to change that.	但是波哥大的例子有能力去改变它
You, however, are blessed with the gift of influence.	然而，你受益于影响的恩惠
That's why you're here and why you value the information we exchange.	这也是为何你在此，来评估我们所交换的信息的原因
Use your influence in support of comprehensive sustainable change everywhere.	用你的影响力来支持各地全面而持久的改变
Don't just talk about it at TED. This is a nationwide policy agenda I'm trying to build, and as you all know, politics are personal.	不要只是在TED谈论。我尝试建立的是一个世界性的议程 正如你所知的，政治是个人的
Help me make green the new black. Help me make sustainability sexy.	帮助我去绿化新的黑人社区。帮助我使它永远迷人
Make it a part of your dinner and cocktail conversations.	让它成为你茶余饭后的谈资
Help me fight for environmental and economic justice.	帮助我为了环境和经济的正义而进行的斗争
Support investments with a triple-bottom-line return.	支持三赢的投资
Help me democratize sustainability by bringing everyone to the table and insisting that comprehensive planning can be addressed everywhere.	帮助我把持续发展大众化，把每个人都叫到一起 而且坚信全面的规划在任何地方都是可以实施的
Oh good, glad I have a little more time!	天哪，很高兴我还有点时间
Listen -- when I spoke to Mr. Gore the other day after breakfast, I asked him how environmental justice activists were going to be included in his new marketing strategy.	听着——那天早饭后我跟戈尔先生说话 我问他如何把环境正义活动家 包含到他新的行销策略当中
His response was a grant program.	他的回答是一个拨款计划
I don't think he understood that I wasn't asking for funding.	我不认为他明白，我不是为了寻求拨款
I was making him an offer.	我是向他伸出了机会的橄榄枝。
What troubled me was that this top-down approach is still around.	一直困扰着我的是，这个至上而下的方法一直都还在周围萦绕
Now, don't get me wrong, we need money.	别误会我了，我们是需要钱
But grassroots groups are needed at the table during the decision-making process.	在决策的过程中需要草根阶层的参与
Of the 90 percent of the energy that Mr. Gore reminded us that we waste every day, don't add wasting our energy, intelligence and hard-earned experience to that count.	戈尔先生提醒我们，我们每天浪费了90%的能量 那就不要再浪费我们的智慧 和很难才获得的经验
I have come from so far to meet you like this.	我大老远跑过来以这种方式与你们见面
Please don't waste me. By working together, we can become one of those small, rapidly growing groups of individuals who actually have the audacity and courage to believe that we actually can change the world.	请不要辜负我。通过一起协作 我们能够变成这些小的，快速发展的团队中的一员 我们有胆量和勇气相信我们真的能改变这个世界
We might have come to this conference from very, very different stations in life, but believe me, we all share one incredibly powerful thing: we have nothing to lose and everything to gain.	我们可能从生命中不同的站点来到了这个会场 但是请相信我，我们都拥有一个难以置信的能力—— 我们没有什么可以失去，却可以获得一切
Ciao bellos!	再见
So it was about four years ago, five years ago, I was sitting on a stage in Philadelphia, I think it was, with a bag similar to this.	大概在四五年前， 我应该坐在费城的一个舞台上， 身边有一个像这样的包。
And I was pulling a molecule out of this bag.	我从这个包里掏出一个分子，
And I was saying, you don't know this molecule really well, but your body knows it extremely well.	说，你很不了解这个分子。 但是你的身体却非常了解它。
And I was thinking that your body hated it, at the time, because we are very immune to this. This is called alpha-gal epitope.	同时我也在想你的身体对之十分痛恨。 因为我们对此免疫。这被称为alpha-gal抗原决定基。
And the fact that pig heart valves have lots of these on them is the reason that you can't transplant a pig heart valve into a person easily.	事实上猪的心脏瓣膜里有很多这种分子， 也正因为此，你很难把猪的心脏瓣膜移植到人体上。
Actually our body doesn't hate these.	实际上我们的身体并不痛恨它们。
Our body loves these. It eats them.	我们的身体喜欢这些食物，它会吃掉它们。
I mean, the cells in our immune system are always hungry.	我的意思是说，我们免疫系统中的细胞总是处于饥饿状态。
And if an antibody is stuck to one of these things on the cell, it means "that's food."	一旦抗体碰到这些东西， 就意味着，"找到食物了"。
Now, I was thinking about that and I said, you know, we've got this immune response to this ridiculous molecule that we don't make, and we see it a lot in other animals and stuff.	正如你所知的， 我们让免疫系统对这个奇怪的分子产生了反应， 而这个分子并不是我们做的，我们能在其他动物和物体上看到这样的物质。
But I said we can't get rid of it, because all the people who tried to transplant heart valves found out you can't get rid of that immunity.	但是我也说过我们无法避免这种免疫活动。 因为所有试图移植心脏瓣膜的人， 最终都发现他们没法摆脱这个免疫系统。
And I said, why don't you use that?	那么我说，为什么不利用它呢？
What if I could stick this molecule, slap it onto a bacteria that was pathogenic to me, that had just invaded my lungs?	假如我把这个分子， 植入到一个细菌上， 而这个细菌恰恰是正在侵略我肺部的病原体呢？
I mean I could immediately tap into an immune response that was already there, where it was not going to take five or six days to develop it -- it was going to immediately attack whatever this thing was on.	这样，我就能立即进入 一个早已准备好的免疫状态了。 而不是像以前那样需要五六天的时间来慢慢发展自己的免疫系统。 用这个方法，我们可以对当前的病原体立即发动攻击了。
It was kind of like the same thing that happens when you, like when you're getting stopped for a traffic ticket in L.A., and the cop drops a bag of marijuana in the back of your car, and then charges you for possession of marijuana.	打个比方来说， 你在洛杉矶碰上了交通堵塞， 警察在你汽车的后备箱放了一麻袋毒品， 并指控你非法拥有毒品。
It's like this very fast, very efficient way to get people off the street.	这其实是一种非常快非常有效的，让人们迅速离开这条街的方法。
So you can take a bacteria that really doesn't make these things at all, and if you could clamp these on it really well you have it taken off the street.	所以你可以取出一个细胞， 这对事情没有任何影响。 但如果你能成功的在细胞上加上这个分子， 你就能把它从大街上甩掉了。
And for certain bacteria we don't have really efficient ways to do that anymore.	对于一些细菌， 我们没有其他有效的方法来抵抗了。
Our antibiotics are running out.	我们的抗生素正在被用尽。
And, I mean, the world apparently is running out too.	我是说，整个世界都在用尽。
So probably it doesn't matter 50 years from now -- streptococcus and stuff like that will be rampant -- because we won't be here. But if we are -- we're going to need something to do with the bacteria.	有可能50年后这已经不是一个问题了， 链球菌会肆虐， 假如今天我们没有在这的话。但是如果我们在—— 我们需要一些东西对抗细菌。
So I started working with this thing, with a bunch of collaborators.	所以我已经开始着手这项工作， 和一群合作者们。
And trying to attach this to things that were themselves attached to certain specific target zones, bacteria that we don't like.	并且尝试着把它附着到 那些本身也附着于某些领域的东西上， 例如对我们有害的细菌。
And I feel now like George Bush.	我现在就像乔治·布什。
It's like "mission accomplished."	就如"任务完成"一样。
So I might be doing something dumb, just like he was doing at the time.	也许我现在做的事情有点蠢，就像他当时做的那样。
But basically what I was talking about there we've now gotten to work.	但基本上我在讨论我们将要做的事情。
And it's killing bacteria. It's eating them.	也就是，杀死病毒，让抗体系统吃掉它们。
This thing can be stuck, like that little green triangle up there, sort of symbolizing this right now.	这件事也许会受到阻碍，就像那边那个绿色小三角一样, 有点像现在的情况。
You can stick this to something called a DNA aptamer.	你可以把它附着到一种叫做DNA适体的东西上。
And that DNA aptamer will attach specifically to a target that you have selected for it.	然后那个DNA适体会专一的附着到 你选择的目标上。
So you can find a little feature on a bacterium that you don't like, like Staphylococcus -- I don't like it in particular, because it killed a professor friend of mine last year.	因此你可以在细菌上找一个你不喜欢的特性， 比如菌尿，我特别不喜欢它， 因为去年我的一名教授朋友因它而死。
It doesn't respond to antibiotics. So I don't like it.	抗生素对它没效果，所以我不喜欢它。
And I'm making an aptamer that will have this attached to it.	于是我制作了一种可以附着在这上面的适体。
That will know how to find Staph when it's in your body, and will alert your immune system to go after it.	它知道怎么在你的体内找到菌尿， 然后报警，让你的免疫系统去搞定它。
Here's what happened. See that line on the very top with the little dots?	我们的测试是这样的。 看到最上面那条由小点构成的线了吗？
That's a bunch of mice that had been poisoned by our scientist friends down in Texas, at Brooks Air Base, with anthrax.	那是一群被毒害了的老鼠， 由处于德克萨斯州的科学家朋友们， 用炭疽杆菌下的毒。
And they had also been treated with a drug that we made that would attack anthrax in particular, and direct your immune system to it.	接着我们对他们使用了我们制作的药物， 它可以一种特殊方式攻击炭疽杆菌， 并引到免疫系统去攻击它。
You'll notice they all lived, the ones on the top line -- that's a 100 percent survival rate.	你会发现最上面一排还都活着。 百分之百的存活率。
And they actually lived another 14 days, or 28 when we finally killed them, and took them apart and figured out what went wrong.	事实上它们接下来又存活了14天， 或者28天，直至我们最后杀死了它们， 并解剖它们，分析到底哪里出了问题。
Why did they not die?	它们为什么没有死呢？
And they didn't die because they didn't have anthrax anymore.	因为它们不再有任何炭疽杆菌了。
So we did it. Okay?	所以说，我们成功了。对吧？
Mission accomplished!	任务完成！
I still remember the day in school when our teacher told us that the world population had become three billion people, and that was in 1960.	我仍然记得我还在上学的时候 老师告诉我们 世界的人口总数已经达到了 30亿人口。 那还是在1960年。
I'm going to talk now about how world population has changed from that year and into the future, but I will not use digital technology, as I've done during my first five TEDTalks.	现在我要谈谈 从那个年代到现在 世界人口是怎样变化的。 但是我不会像我上五次谈话那样 使用数码科技。
Instead, I have progressed, and I am, today, launching a brand new analog teaching technology that I picked up from IKE this box.	相反的，我进步了。 我在今天，会展示 一个崭新的模拟教学科技 这是我从宜家买来的， 这个箱子。
This box contains one billion people.	这个箱子包含十亿人口。
And our teacher told us that the industrialized world, 1960, had one billion people.	我的老师告诉我 在工业化的世界，1960年， 有十个亿的人口。
In the developing world, she said, they had two billion people.	在发展中的国家，她说道， 有两亿人口
And they lived away then.	而且他们的生活相对隔离。
There was a big gap between the one billion in the industrialized world and the two billion in the developing world.	在10亿的工业化世界 和20亿的发展中世界 有一个巨大的鸿沟。
In the industrialized world, people were healthy, educated, rich, and they had small families.	在工业化世界， 人们健康， 良好教育，富有， 并且有较小的家庭。
And their aspiration was to buy a car.	他们的心愿 就是买辆车。
And in 1960, all Swedes were saving to try to buy a Volvo like this.	在1960年，整个瑞典都在存钱 去买一辆像这样的沃尔沃。
This was the economic level at which Sweden was.	这就是当时瑞典的经济水平。
But in contrast to this, in the developing world, far away, the aspiration of the average family there was to have food for the day.	但是相对的， 在遥远的发展中国家， 中等家庭的愿望则是 每天能够有食物。
They were saving to be able to buy a pair of shoes.	而他们存钱 是想买一双鞋。
There was an enormous gap in the world when I grew up.	在我所长大的世界里 是有一个巨大的鸿沟。
And this gap between the West and the rest has created a mindset of the world, which we still use linguistically when we talk about "the West" and "the Developing World."	这个在西方世界和其他国家的鸿沟 所创造的世界观 就是我们今天口头上 提到"西方世界" 和"发展中国家。"
But the world has changed, and it's overdue to upgrade that mindset and that taxonomy of the world, and to understand it.	但是世界已经变化了， 是时候去升级这个世界观了， 去对世界分类，以及了解这个分类。
And that's what I'm going to show you, because since 1960 what has happened in the world up to 2010 is that a staggering four billion people have been added to the world population.	这就是我将要向你们展示的。 因为自从1960年 到2010年间，所发生的是 一个惊人 的四十亿人口 加入到了世界人口中。
Just look how many.	看看有多少。
The world population has doubled since I went to school.	从我上学到现在 世界人口已经翻倍了。
And of course, there's been economic growth in the West.	而且当然的，西方的经济也增长了。
A lot of companies have happened to grow the economy, so the Western population moved over to here.	很多公司的经济都增长了， 所以西方的人口就移动到这。
And now their aspiration is not only to have a car.	现在人们所想的不是买辆车。
Now they want to have a holiday on a very remote destination and they want to fly.	现在他们想买的是一个在遥远地方的假期 而且要飞去。
So this is where they are today.	所以他们现在在这。
And the most successful of the developing countries, they have moved on, you know, and they have become emerging economies, we call them.	然而这里最成功的发展中国家， 他们也移动了，你知道的。 他们成了我们口中的新兴经济体。
They are now buying cars.	现在他们也买车了。
And what happened a month ago was that the Chinese company, Geely, they acquired the Volvo company, and then finally the Swedes understood that something big had happened in the world.	而且就在一个月以前 一个叫做吉利的中国公司 收购了沃尔沃公司。 这样瑞典在终于意识到 世界发生了一些大的变化。
So there they are.	所以他们现在在这。
And the tragedy is that the two billion over here that is struggling for food and shoes, they are still almost as poor as they were 50 years ago.	悲惨是，在这里的二十亿 还在为食物和鞋子挣扎， 他们仍然和50年前 一样的贫穷。
The new thing is that we have the biggest pile of billions, the three billions here, which are also becoming emerging economies, because they are quite healthy, relatively well-educated, and they already also have two to three children per woman, as those [richer also] have.	区别就在 我们有最多的30个亿在这里， 正在成为新兴经济体， 因为他们颇为健康，相对受过教育， 他们也有两到三个小孩 平均每个妇女。
And their aspiration now is, of course, to buy a bicycle, and then later on they would like to have a motorbike also.	他们现在的愿望是 显然的，买一辆自行车， 他们过一段时间还会想要摩托车。
But this is the world we have today, no longer any gap.	但是这就是 我们现在所有的世界。 没有鸿沟。
But the distance from the poorest here, the very poorest, to the very richest over here is wider than ever.	但是贫穷的还是非常贫穷， 和富有的相比，差距更大了。
But there is a continuous world from walking, biking, driving, flying -- there are people on all levels, and most people tend to be somewhere in the middle.	但是这是一个渐变的世界 从走路，自行车， 到汽车，到飞行 所有水准都有。 大多数人是在这中间。
This is the new world we have today in 2010.	这是我们在2010的 世界。
And what will happen in the future?	那未来会发生什么？
Well, I'm going to project into 2050.	好的，我现在要穿越到 2050年。
I was in Shanghai recently, and I listened to what's happening in China, and it's pretty sure that they will catch up, just as Japan did.	我最近在上海。 我也听到了中国所发生的事情。 显然他们会像日本一样 迎头赶上。
All the projections [say that] this one [billion] will [only] grow with one to two or three percent.	未来--这个会长 一到两个百分比。
[But this second] grows with seven, eight percent, and then they will end up here.	这个会长7，8个。他们会前进到这里。
They will start flying.	他们也会开始常坐飞机。
And these lower or middle income countries, the emerging income countries, they will also forge forwards economically.	而这些 中低收入国家，新兴经济体国家， 他们会在经济上进一步增长。
And if, but only if, we invest in the right green technology -- so that we can avoid severe climate change, and energy can still be relatively cheap -- then they will move all the way up here.	如果 但是只有如果 我们投入到正确的绿色科技 -- 我们才能避免严重的气候变化， 能源才能相对的便宜 -- 这样他们才会都移到这里来。
And they will start to buy electric cars.	他们才会开始购买 电子汽车。
This is what we will find there.	这就是我们在这里发现的。
So what about the poorest two billion?	那么最贫穷的那20亿呢？
What about the poorest two billion here?	最贫穷的20亿会怎么样呢？
Will they move on?	他们会怎样移动呢？
Well, here population [growth] comes in because there [among emerging economies] we already have two to three children per woman, family planning is widely used, and population growth is coming to an end.	好吧，这里人口会先增加 因为每个妇女平均有2到3个小孩， 家庭计划会被普遍采用， 人口增长会走到尽头。
Here [among the poorest], population is growing.	这里，人口增长。
So these [poorest] two billion will, in the next decades, increase to three billion, and they will thereafter increase to four billion.	所以这两亿，在下面的几十年里， 会增长到30亿。 然后会继续 增长到40亿。
There is nothing -- but a nuclear war of a kind we've never seen -- that can stop this [growth] from happening.	任何事情 除非有一个我们都没有见过的核战争 才能阻止这个增长。
Because we already have this [growth] in process.	因为我们已经在这个进程中了。
But if, and only if, [the poorest] get out of poverty, they get education, they get improved child survival, they can buy a bicycle and a cell phone and come [to live] here, then population growth will stop in 2050.	但是如果，只有如果 他们能脱离贫穷， 他们能受教育，能提高儿童成活率， 他们才能买自行车，手机，他们会移动到这儿来， 然后人口增长 会在2050停止。
We cannot have people on this level looking for food and shoes because then we get continued population growth.	我们不能让这些人在这个水准 还在寻找食物和鞋子， 因为那样我们的人口会继续增长。
And let me show you why by converting back to the old-time digital technology.	现在让我来告诉你为什么 用我老式的 数码科技来告诉你们。
Here I have on the screen my country bubbles.	在屏幕上显示的 是国家泡泡。
Every bubble is a country. The size is population.	每一个泡泡代表一个国家。大小是人口。
The colors show the continent.	颜色是不同的大洲。
The yellow on there is the Americas; dark blue is Africa; brown is Europe; green is the Middle East and this light blue is South Asia.	黄色是美国。 深蓝是非洲，棕色是欧洲， 绿色是中东， 浅蓝是亚洲。
That's India and this is China. Size is population.	这是印度，这是中国。大小是人口。
Here I have children per woman: two children, four children, six children, eight children -- big families, small families.	这边我们有每个妇女所有的小孩， 2个，4个，6个和8个-- 大的家庭，小的家庭。
The year is 1960.	这是1960年。
And down here, child survival, the percentage of children surviving childhood up to starting school: 60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent, 90, and almost 100 percent, as we have today in the wealthiest and healthiest countries.	这里，儿童存活率， 每个儿童存活的百分比 一直到学龄前儿童。 60%，70%，80%，90%， 以及几乎100%，就跟现今 在最富有和最健康的国家里一样。
But look, this is the world my teacher talked about in 1960: one billion Western world here -- high child-survival, small families -- and all the rest, the rainbow of developing countries, with very large families and poor child survival.	看，这就是我老师口中的1960年的世界。 西方国家一个亿， 高儿童存活率，小家庭。 和所有其他， 其他五彩斑斓的发展中国家， 都有大的家庭 和很低的儿童存活率。
What has happened? I start the world. Here we go.	发生了什么？我来发动世界，开始了。
Can you see, as the years pass by, child survival is increasing?	你可以看到随这时光的流逝，儿童存活率增加了吗？
They get soap, hygiene, education, vaccination, penicillin and then family planning. Family size is decreasing.	他们有肥皂，清洁剂，教育 假期，和青霉素。 然后家庭计划。家庭大小降低了。
[When] they get up to 90-percent child survival, then families decrease, and most of the Arab countries in the Middle East is falling down there [to small families].	他们有大概90%的存活率，然后家庭变小了。 然后大多数中东的阿拉伯国家 都降低到这里。
Look, Bangladesh catching up with India.	看，孟加拉国国赶上了印度。
The whole emerging world joins the Western world with good child survival and small family size, but we still have the poorest billion.	整个新兴经济体 加入了西方世界 有着高的儿童存活率 和较小的家庭大小。 但是我们还是有这最贫穷的十亿。
Can you see the poorest billion, those [two] boxes I had over here?	你可以看到那最贫穷的十亿， 那些那边的箱子？
They are still up here.	他们还在那里。
And they still have a child survival of only 70 to 80 percent, meaning that if you have six children born, there will be at least four who survive to the next generation.	他们的儿童存活率还是 70%到80%。 也就是说，如果你有6个小孩， 最后只有4个能存活 变成下一代。
And the population will double in one generation.	而且人口会在下一代翻倍。
So the only way of really getting world population [growth] to stop is to continue to improve child survival to 90 percent.	所以能阻止 世界人口增长 的唯一办法是提高儿童存活率 到90%。
That's why investments by Gates Foundation, UNICEF and aid organizations, together with national government in the poorest countries, are so good; because they are actually helping us to reach a sustainable population size of the world.	那就是为什么盖茨的基金， 儿童基金会和急救机构 和贫穷国家的国家政府 是很好的组织。 因为他们实际上 在帮助我们 达到一个能持续发展的人口数。
We can stop at nine billion if we do the right things.	我们可以停在90个亿，如果我们能做正确的事情。
Child survival is the new green.	儿童存活率是一个崭新的梦想。
It's only by child survival that we will stop population growth.	只有通过提高儿童存活率 我们才能阻止人口增长。
And will it happen?	这会发生吗？
Well, I'm not an optimist, neither am I a pessimist.	好吧，我不是乐观主义者， 我也不是悲观主义者。
I'm a very serious "possibilist."	我是一个十分严肃的"可能性主义者"
It's a new category where we take emotion apart, and we just work analytically with the world.	这是一个新词，当我们把我们的个人情绪抛开， 我们就只专注于分析世界。
It can be done.	就可以被做到。
We can have a much more just world.	我们可以做到更多。
With green technology and with investments to alleviate poverty, and global governance, the world can become like this.	伴随这绿色科技 和对减轻贫困的投资 和全球控制， 世界能变成这样。
And look at the position of the old West.	再来看看旧日的西方世界所占据的位置。
Remember when this blue box was all alone, leading the world, living its own life.	记住这个蓝色的箱子一直都是单独地 带领这世界，生活在自己的生活中。
This will not happen [again].	这种情况不会再继续下去了。
The role of the old West in the new world is to become the foundation of the modern world -- nothing more, nothing less.	旧西方世界在新世界的地位 会是一个现代化世界 的基础-- 不比这个多，也不比这个少。
But it's a very important role.	但是是一个十分重要的角色。
Do it well and get used to it.	做好这个角色，而且要适应这个角色。
Thank you very much.	十分谢谢你们。
Ladies and gentlemen, gather around.	先生们女士们 大家都围坐过来
I would love to share with you a story.	让我来给你们讲个故事
Once upon a time in 19th century Germany, there was the book.	很久很久以前 19世纪的德国 有本书
Now during this time, the book was the king of storytelling.	那时候 这是故事书中的王者
It was venerable.	故事书很珍贵
It was ubiquitous.	但又无处不在
But it was a little bit boring.	又有点无趣
Because in its 400 years of existence, storytellers never evolved the book as a storytelling device.	因为在有故事书的四百年里 讲故事的人们从来没有 改良故事书作为辅助设备
But then one author arrived, and he changed the game forever.	后来有个作家 他永远地改写了历史
His name was Lothar, Lothar Meggendorfer.	他叫罗萨 罗萨･梅根多尔弗尔
Lothar Meggendorfer put his foot down, and he said, "Genug ist genug!"	罗萨･梅根多尔弗尔下了决心 他说："我受够了！"
He grabbed his pen, he snatched his scissors.	他抓起笔 抄起剪刀
This man refused to fold to the conventions of normalcy and just decided to fold.	他决意不走寻常路 他折起了纸
History would know Lothar Meggendorfer as -- who else? -- the world's first true inventor of the children's pop-up book.	历史上的罗萨･梅根多尔弗尔 作为什么人被记载下来？ 世界上第一个 为孩子发明立体书的人
For this delight and for this wonder, people rejoiced.	人们享受着 这喜悦和惊奇
They were happy because the story survived, and that the world would keep on spinning.	（欢呼） 他们很高兴故事保存下来 世界继续转动
Lothar Meggendorfer wasn't the first to evolve the way a story was told, and he certainly wasn't the last.	罗萨･梅根多尔弗尔不是第一个 改进讲故事方法的人 也不会是最后一个
Whether storytellers realized it or not, they were channeling Meggendorfer's spirit when they moved opera to vaudville, radio news to radio theater, film to film in motion to film in sound, color, 3D, on VHS and on DVD.	不管讲故事的人是否意识到 当他们 从歌剧到杂技 从电台新闻到电台剧院 从影像到电影 到有声电影，彩色电影和3D电影 从家用录像到DVD 他们都是在传承梅根多尔弗尔的精神
There seemed to be no cure for this Meggendorferitis.	没有什么能阻止梅根多尔弗尔的精神
And things got a lot more fun when the Internet came around.	互联网的问世则带来了更多的乐趣
Because, not only could people broadcast their stories throughout the world, but they could do so using what seemed to be an infinite amount of devices.	因为人们不但可以向世界讲述他们的故事 而且可以 利用各种各样的设备来讲故事
For example, one company would tell a story of love through its very own search engine.	比如 有个公司 通过它的搜索引擎 讲述一个爱情故事
One Taiwanese production studio would interpret American politics in 3D.	一个台湾工作室 把美国政治做成3D动画
And one man would tell the stories of his father by using a platform called Twitter to communicate the excrement his father would gesticulate.	有个人通过一个叫做推特的平台 讲述他父亲的故事 分享他父亲说的无用废话
And after all this, everyone paused; they took a step back.	在有了这一切之后 人们停下脚步 回望过去
They realized that, in 6,000 years of storytelling, they've gone from depicting hunting on cave walls to depicting Shakespeare on Facebook walls.	他们意识到 在六千年讲故事的历史中 他们从在洞穴墙壁上画狩猎图 到在脸书的涂鸦墙上诠释莎士比亚
And this was a cause for celebration.	这是让我们庆祝的原因
The art of storytelling has remained unchanged.	讲故事的艺术没有改变
And for the most part, the stories are recycled.	大部分故事流传下来
But the way that humans tell the stories has always evolved with pure, consistent novelty.	但是人们讲故事的方法 已经通过不断创新 不停地改进
And they remembered a man, one amazing German, every time a new storytelling device popped up next.	人们会记住一个人 一个伟大的德国人 每一次一个新的讲故事的设备问世 都会想起他
And for that, the audience -- the lovely, beautiful audience -- would live happily ever after.	由此 观众们 可爱美丽的观众们 也从此永远幸福快乐地生活在一起
B.J. was one of many fellow inmates who had big plans for the future.	和许多囚犯一样， B.J.有着宏大的未来计划。
He had a vision. When he got out, he was going to leave the dope game for good and fly straight, and he was actually working on merging his two passions into one vision.	他的愿望是，出狱之后 不再贩毒，坦荡做人 他正在努力将他的两项爱好融合成一项事业。
He'd spent 10,000 dollars to buy a website that exclusively featured women having sex on top of or inside of luxury sports cars.	他花了一万美元 购买了一个网站 网站的主要内容是美女在奢侈跑车的上面或者里面做爱。
It was my first week in federal prison, and I was learning quickly that it wasn't what you see on TV.	那时我进联邦监狱刚刚一周， 但我很快就发现那里的情形和电视上很不一样。
In fact, it was teeming with smart, ambitious men whose business instincts were in many cases as sharp as those of the CEOs who had wined and dined me six months earlier when I was a rising star in the Missouri Senate.	事实上，监狱充满了聪明、野心勃勃的人 六个月之前 作为密苏里州参议院"冉冉升起的新星" 我和CEO们一起吃饭 进监狱之后，我感觉囚犯们的商业直觉和高管们一样敏锐。
Now, 95 percent of the guys that I was locked up with had been drug dealers on the outside, but when they talked about what they did, they talked about it in a different jargon, but the business concepts that they talked about weren't unlike those that you'd learn in a first year MBA class at Wharton: promotional incentives, you never charge a first-time user, focus-grouping new product launches, territorial expansion.	我的狱友中95% 都是因为贩毒被捕的， 他们说起自己的过去时 会用到独特的行话 但他们谈到的经商理念 和沃顿商学院工商管理硕士的一年级课程颇为相似： 促销激励，新顾客可以免费试用 针对某一顾客群体的新产品发布， 市场拓展。
But they didn't spend a lot of time reliving the glory days.	他们并没有整天沉浸在对过去光辉岁月的追忆之中。
For the most part, everyone was just trying to survive.	大多数情况下，他们不过是为了生存而已。
It's a lot harder than you might think.	这可能比你想象的要困难很多。
Contrary to what most people think, people don't pay, taxpayers don't pay, for your life when you're in prison. You've got to pay for your own life.	和大部分人所想的不同 人民，纳税人是不支付 囚犯在监狱的生活费用的。你必须自己养活自己。
You've got to pay for your soap, your deodorant, toothbrush, toothpaste, all of it.	你必须付钱购买肥皂、除臭剂、 牙刷、牙膏等等。
And it's hard for a couple of reasons.	有几个原因导致在监狱中生存颇为困难。
First, everything's marked up 30 to 50 percent from what you'd pay on the street, and second, you don't make a lot of money.	首先，所有东西的价格都比 市场价高出30%到50%， 第二，你挣得钱不多。
I unloaded trucks. That was my full-time job, unloading trucks at a food warehouse, for $5.25, not an hour, but per month.	我为卡车卸货。这是一份全职工作， 在一个食品仓库给卡车卸货 一个月，不是一个小时，赚5.25美元。
So how do you survive?	怎样才能生存呢？
Well, you learn to hustle, all kinds of hustles.	我们必须做买卖，各种各样的买卖。
There's legal hustles.	有合法的买卖。
You pay everything in stamps. Those are the currency.	以邮票为货币买东西。
You charge another inmate to clean his cell.	有偿为狱友打扫牢房。
There's sort of illegal hustles, like you run a barbershop out of your cell.	也有轻微违规的买卖，比如在你的牢房里开个理发店。
There's pretty illegal hustles: You run a tattoo parlor out of your own cell.	违规情节稍微严重一点的是：在牢房里开纹身店。
And there's very illegal hustles, which you smuggle in, you get smuggled in, drugs, pornography, cell phones, and just as in the outer world, there's a risk-reward tradeoff, so the riskier the enterprise, the more profitable it can potentially be.	也有违规情节非常严重的买卖：从外面偷运 或者请人偷运毒品、色情制品、 手机，和监狱外的商业世界一样 监狱里存在着风险收益的平衡，所以一项生意风险越大 它所能带来的利润可能也越高。
You want a cigarette in prison? Three to five dollars.	在监狱想买一根香烟？3到5美元。
You want an old-fashioned cell phone that you flip open and is about as big as your head? Three hundred bucks.	想要翻盖的、 和人脑袋差不多大的手机？300美元。
You want a dirty magazine?	想要色情杂志？
Well, it can be as much as 1,000 dollars.	那可能要花1000美元。
So as you can probably tell, one of the defining aspects of prison life is ingenuity.	你可能也发现了，灵活的头脑 在监狱生活中非常重要。
Whether it was concocting delicious meals from stolen scraps from the warehouse, sculpting people's hair with toenail clippers, or constructing weights from boulders in laundry bags tied on to tree limbs, prisoners learn how to make do with less, and many of them want to take this ingenuity that they've learned to the outside and start restaurants, barber shops, personal training businesses.	无论是用从仓库偷来的废料 烹制美味的食物 还是用指甲钳为人做发型 抑或是用挂在树上装满岩石的洗衣袋健身 囚犯们知道如何在物质条件贫乏的条件下生存 很多人也希望能利用自己 在监狱中培养锻炼出的灵活头脑 在出狱之后开餐厅、理发店 或者搞个人健身辅导。
But there's no training, nothing to prepare them for that, no rehabilitation at all in prison, no one to help them write a business plan, figure out a way to translate the business concepts they intuitively grasp into legal enterprises, no access to the Internet, even.	然而监狱中没有意在帮助囚犯重返社会自力更生的课程 囚犯在监狱中并没有得到真正的改造。 没有人帮助囚犯撰写商业计划， 帮助他们找到把来自直觉的商业理念 转化为合法生意的方法， 囚犯们甚至不能上网。
And then, when they come out, most states don't even have a law prohibiting employers from discriminating against people with a background.	随后，出狱之后，很多州 没有禁止 雇主歧视有前科的求职者的法律。
So none of us should be surprised that two out of three ex-offenders re-offend within five years.	所以在三分之二的囚犯出狱后 五年之后还会再犯的事实面前 我们根本无需惊讶。
Look, I lied to the Feds. I lost a year of my life from it.	我对联邦政府撒谎，因此在联邦监狱服刑一年。
But when I came out, I vowed that I was going to do whatever I could to make sure that guys like the ones I was locked up with didn't have to waste any more of their life than they already had.	不过，出狱之后，我发誓 尽全力帮助那些 和我的狱友们有相似经历的人们 让他们不要再继续浪费生命。
So I hope that you'll think about helping in some way.	因此，我希望你们能够考虑伸出援手。
The best thing we can do is figure out ways to nurture the entrepreneurial spirit and the tremendous untapped potential in our prisons, because if we don't, they're not going to learn any new skills that's going to help them, and they'll be right back.	我们的最佳选择是 想办法扶持监狱中的创业精神 发掘囚犯身上隐藏的巨大潜力 因为如果我们不这么做的话，囚犯们就无法学到 能够帮助他们谋生的新技能，他们还会回到监狱当中。
All they'll learn on the inside is new hustles.	而他们在监狱里所能学到的不过是新的骗术而已。
Thank you.	谢谢。
How many of you have checked your email today?	你们有几个人今天查看邮箱了？
Come on, raise your hands.	来吧，举起手来。
How many of you are checking it right now?	又有多少人现在在查看？
And how about finances? Anybody check that today?	资金账户呢？有人今天查看了没？
Credit card, investment account?	信用卡，投资账户？
How about this week?	这个礼拜查看了么？
Now, how about your household energy use?	那么家庭能源使用情况呢？
Anybody check that today?	有人今天查看那个了吗？
This week? Last week?	这个礼拜？上个礼拜呢？
A few energy geeks spread out across the room.	这个房间中有一些能源极客。
It's good to see you guys.	很高兴见到你们。
But the rest of us -- this is a room filled with people who are passionate about the future of this planet, and even we aren't paying attention to the energy use that's driving climate change.	但是剩下的我们，这是一个全是人的房间， 这些人对这个星球的未来充满热情， 但是甚至我们都不关心 导致气候变暖的能源消耗
The woman in the photo with me is Harriet.	这张照片中和我在一起的女性是Harriet。
We met her on our first family vacation.	在我们第一次家庭度假的时候，我们见到了她。
Harriet's paying attention to her energy use, and she is decidedly not an energy geek.	Harriet正在关注她的能源使用情况， 毫无疑问，她并不是能源极客。
This is the story of how Harriet came to pay attention.	这是Harriet为什么会关注能源的故事。
This is coal, the most common source of electricity on the planet, and there's enough energy in this coal to light this bulb for more than a year.	这是煤炭， 这个星球上最常见的电力能源， 这些煤炭中有足够多的能量， 可以让这个灯泡亮一年还多。
But unfortunately, between here and here, most of that energy is lost to things like transmission leakage and heat.	不幸的是，在从这里到这里过程中， 这种能量大部分都因为， 传导流失和放热而丢失了。
In fact, only 10 percent ends up as light.	事实上，只有10%的能量最后以光能的形式释放。
So this coal will last a little bit more than a month.	所以这块煤炭最多只能够维持一个月多一点。
If you wanted to light this bulb for a year, you'd need this much coal.	如果你想要让这个灯泡照明一年， 你需要这么多煤炭。
The bad news here is that, for every unit of energy we use, we waste nine.	坏消息是，我们每用一成的能量， 我们就会浪费九成。
That means there's good news, because for every unit of energy we save, we save the other nine.	这也意味着有好消息， 就是我们每节约一成的能量， 我们就节约了剩下的九成。
So the question is, how can we get the people in this room and across the globe to start paying attention to the energy we're using, and start wasting less of it?	问题是，我们如何让在这个房间里的人们 以及全世界的人们开始关注 我们所使用的能量， 并且开始减少浪费？
The answer comes from a behavioral science experiment that was run one hot summer, 10 years ago, and only 90 miles from here, in San Marcos, California.	答案来自于一个行为科学实验， 是十年前一个炎热的夏天进行的， 离这儿只有90英里地方， 在California的San Marcos。
Graduate students put signs on every door in a neighborhood, asking people to turn off their air conditioning and turn on their fans.	研究生们在某个街区的每一扇门上做了留言条， 告诉人们关掉空调 打开电扇。
One quarter of the homes received a message that said, did you know you could save 54 dollars a month this summer?	四分之一的家庭收到了一条留言说， 你知道吗？这个夏天你可以每月节约54美元
Turn off your air conditioning, turn on your fans.	只要关掉空调，使用电扇。
Another group got an environmental message.	另一组收到的是环境方面的留言。
And still a third group got a message about being good citizens, preventing blackouts.	第三组得到的留言是 做一个文明公民，防止停电。
Most people guessed that money-saving message would work best of all.	大部分人认为节约开支的留言将会最有效应。
In fact, none of these messages worked.	事实上，没有一条留言起到作用。
They had zero impact on energy consumption.	他们对于能源消耗没有任何影响。
It was as if the grad students hadn't shown up at all.	就好像研究生们并没有贴过这些留言条一样。
But there was a fourth message, and this message simply said, "When surveyed, 77 percent of your neighbors said that they turned off their air conditioning and turned on their fans.	但是有第四条留言， 这条留言简单地写着， "调查发现，你们77%的邻居们说 他们关掉了空调，开始使用电扇。
Please join them. Turn off your air conditioning and turn on your fans."	请加入他们。关掉空调， 打开电扇。"
And wouldn't you know it, they did.	你们信不信？他们做到了！
The people who received this message showed a marked decrease in energy consumption simply by being told what their neighbors were doing.	收到这条留言的人们 显著地减少了能源消耗。 只是因为告知了他们，邻居在做什么。
So what does this tell us?	这告诉我们什么呢？
Well, if something is inconvenient, even if we believe in it, moral suasion, financial incentives, don't do much to move us -- but social pressure, that's powerful stuff.	好吧，如果某些事情有些不便， 即使我们相信它， 道德劝说，经济鼓励，并不会让我们行动起来， 但是社会压力，是强悍的。
And harnessed correctly, it can be a powerful force for good.	正确地利用的话，它可以成为强大的正能量。
In fact, it already is.	事实上，它已经是了。
Inspired by this insight, my friend Dan Yates and I started a company called Opower.	受此启发，我和我的朋友Dan Yates开始 筹划一个公司，叫"Opower"。
We built software and partnered with utility companies who wanted to help their customers save energy.	我们开发软件并且与公共事业公司合作， 这些公司也想要帮助他们的客户节约能源。
We deliver personalized home energy reports that show people how their consumption compares to their neighbors in similar-sized homes.	我们发表个性化的家庭能源报导， 向人们展示他们的消耗量 与住房大小相似的邻居比较。
Just like those effective door hangers, we have people comparing themselves to their neighbors, and then we give everyone targeted recommendations to help them save.	就像那些有效的挂在门上的留言条一样， 我们让人们把他们自己与邻居相比， 然后给出目标性的建议。 帮助他们节约。
We started with paper, we moved to a mobile application, web, and now even a controllable thermostat, and for the last five years we've been running the largest behavioral science experiment in the world.	我们从纸张开始，然后是手机应用， 网络，现在甚至是可控恒温器， 在过去的五年中，我们已经开始 启动世界上最大的行为科学实验。
And it's working.	它起效了。
Ordinary homeowners and renters have saved more than 250 million dollars on their energy bills, and we're just getting started.	普通的房主和租房者已经在他们的能源账单上 节约了超过250美金 我们才刚刚开始。
This year alone, in partnership with more than 80 utilities in six countries, we're going to generate another two terawatt hours of electricity savings.	就今年，与超过80个公共机构的合作， 分布于六个国家，我们正在努力省下 再两个太瓦小时(1亿度）的电量。
Now, the energy geeks in the room know two terawatt hours, but for the rest of us, two terawatt hours is more than enough energy to power every home in St. Louis and Salt Lake City combined for more than a year.	现在，屋子里的能源极客们知道两个太瓦小时， 但是对于剩下的我们而言， 两个太瓦小时可以足足让 St. Louis和Salt Lake City的每户人家 用上一年还多。
Two terawatt hours, it's roughly half what the U.S. solar industry produced last year.	两个太瓦小时，大约是去年 美国太阳能工厂年产量的一半。
And two terawatt hours? In terms of coal, we'd need to burn 34 of these wheelbarrows every minute around the clock every day for an entire year to get two terawatt hours of electricity.	两个太瓦小时，换成煤炭的话， 我们需要每分钟燃烧34辆这种独轮手推车的煤炭， 每小时60分钟，每天24小时，每年365天。 才能得到两个太瓦小时的能量。
And we're not burning anything.	然而我们并不在燃烧任何东西，
We're just motivating people to pay attention and change their behavior.	我们只是激发人们关注 并且改变他们的行为。
But we're just one company, and this is just scratching the surface.	但我们只是一家公司， 这些都还只是杯水车薪。
Twenty percent of the electricity in homes is wasted, and when I say wasted, I don't mean that people have inefficient lightbulbs. They may.	一户人家中有20%的能量是被浪费掉的， 当我说浪费的时候，我并不是指人们 装了一些没用的灯泡。他们可以有。
I mean we leave the lights on in empty rooms, and we leave the air conditioning on when nobody's home.	我是指我们让没人的屋子里亮着灯， 我们仍然在家里没人的时候开着空调。
That's 40 billion dollars a year wasted on electricity that does not contribute to our well-being but does contribute to climate change.	那每年浪费的400亿美金 并没有为全面建设小康社会作出贡献， 但是会导致气候改变。
That's 40 billion -- with a B -- every year in the U.S. alone.	那是400亿美金，yì~~~亿 单单在美国。
That's half our coal usage right there.	我们一半的煤炭被用在那儿了。
Now thankfully, some of the world's best material scientists are looking to replace coal with sustainable resources like these, and this is both fantastic and essential.	现在，十分的庆幸，一些世界上最好的材料科学家们 正在寻找代替煤炭的可持续能源。 像这些， 这是令人惊奇的也是必须的。
But the most overlooked resource to get us to a sustainable energy future, it isn't on this slide.	但是大部分的被忽视的资源带领我们 来到可持续能源的未来，并不在这个银幕上。
It's in this room. It's you, and it's me.	在这个房间里，是你们，也是我。
And we can harness this resource with no new material science simply by applying behavioral science.	我们可以利用这种资源 不必使用最新的材料科学技术。 只需要简单地使用行为科学。
We can do it today, we know it works, and it will save us money right away.	我们今天就可以做到，我们知道它是如何运转的， 它可以立即节约我们的金钱。
So what are we waiting for?	那我们还在等什么？
Well, in most places, utility regulation hasn't changed much since Thomas Edison.	好吧，在大多数地方，调节利用 自从爱迪生时代并没有改变太多，。
Utilities are still rewarded when their customers waste energy.	公共事业机构一直因为客户浪费能源 而受到奖励。
They ought to be rewarded for helping their customers save it.	而他们应该因帮助客户们节约能源而被奖励。
But this story is much more than about household energy use.	但这个故事远不止是关于家庭的能源使用。
Take a look at the Prius.	看看这辆丰田普锐斯。
It's efficient not only because Toyota invested in material science but because they invested in behavioral science.	它十分地高效不单单是因为丰田投资了材料科学， 而是因为他们投资了行为科学。
The dashboard that shows drivers how much energy they're saving in real time makes former speed demons drive more like cautious grandmothers.	仪表盘告诉驾驶员们 他们实时节约了多少能量。 使之前的速度魔鬼 变得更像谨慎的祖母。
Which brings us back to Harriet.	这把我们带回到Harriet的故事中。
We met her on our first family vacation.	我们在第一次家庭度假的时候遇见了她。
She came over to meet my young daughter, and she was tickled to learn that my daughter's name is also Harriet.	她走过来看看我的小女儿， 她很高兴地了解到我女儿的名字 也是Harriet。
She asked me what I did for a living, and I told her, I work with utilities to help people save energy.	她问我是什么工作的， 我告诉她，我与公共事业单位一起工作 来帮助人们节约能源。
It was then that her eyes lit up.	就在那时她的眼睛发亮了。
She looked at me, and she said, "You're exactly the person I need to talk to.	她看着我说， "你正是我想要与之交流的人，
You see, two weeks ago, my husband and I got a letter in the mail from our utility.	你看，两个礼拜前，我丈夫和我收到了一封信， 从我们的公共事业机构那儿。
It told us we were using twice as much energy as our neighbors."	告诉我们使用的能源是我们邻居的2倍多。"
"And for the last two weeks, all we can think about, talk about, and even argue about, is what we should be doing to save energy.	"在过去的两个礼拜中，所有我们思考的， 讨论的，甚至争论的， 都是我们应该做什么来节约能源。
We did everything that letter told us to do, and still I know there must be more.	我们做了信件告诉我们的每一件事， 我知道一定还有更多。
Now I'm here with a genuine expert.	现在我和一个真正的专家站在这儿。
Tell me. What should I do to save energy?"	告诉我。我该做什么才能节约能源？"
There are many experts who can help answer Harriet's question.	有很多专家可以回答Harriet的问题。
My goal is to make sure we are all asking it.	我的目标是确保 人人都在这么问。
Thank you.	谢谢。
You learned how to be a diver Put on a mask and believe Gather a dinner of shells for me Take the tank down so you can breathe Below Movements slow You are an island All the secrets until then Pried open I held them Until they were still Until they were still Until they were still Dream time, I will find you You are shady, you are new I'm not so good at mornings I can see too clearly I prefer the nighttime Dark and blurry Falling night Hovering light Calling night Hovering light In the moontime I will give up my life And in the deep dreams You will find me [Excerpts from "Myth and Infrastructure"] Come back.	（配乐：安娜·奥克斯珍） （配乐：米拉《贝壳》） 你学会了如何潜水 信心十足地带上氧气罩 为我搜集一顿贝壳晚餐 带上氧气罐用来呼吸 海面之下 缓慢移动 你是孤岛 所有秘密 我来揭秘 直至静谧 直至静谧 直至静谧 （配乐：凯罗林·鲁芙金） （配乐：安娜·奥克斯珍） 梦境中，我们会相遇 阴影里，你焕然一新 我不太适应黎明 因为看得太清晰 我更爱夜晚 黑暗又朦胧 夜幕降临 柔光悬空 夜的呼唤 柔光悬空 我将要消失，我将要离开这个尘世 绮丽梦境 来此寻我 [表演选自"神话与基础设施"] 布鲁诺·吉桑尼：来这里。
Miwa Matreyek!	米娃·马特雷耶克！
I always wanted to become a walking laboratory of social engagement, to resonate other people's feelings, thoughts, intentions, motivations, in the act of being with them.	我一直都想成为 社会交往中的一个能活动的实验室 在于他人相处时，理解他们的感受与思想, 意图和动机,从而产生共鸣.
As a scientist, I always wanted to measure that resonance, that sense of the other that happens so quickly, in the blink of an eye.	作为一个科学家,我总想度量这种共鸣的感受 这种感受瞬间产生, 仿佛在眨眼之间.
We intuit other people's feelings.	我们凭直觉理解别人的感受
We know the meaning of their actions even before they happen.	了解其行为所代表的意义 甚至在某个行为产生之前
We're always in this stance of being the object of somebody else's subjectivity.	我们总是 别人主观意识里的客体
We do that all the time. We just can't shake it off.	一直都是这样. 我们就是没法摆脱.
It's so important that the very tools that we use to understand ourselves, to understand the world around them, is shaped by that stance.	而这一点又十分的重要, 以至于我们用来了解自我与世界的每一种工具 都深受这一状况的影响
We are social to the core.	人类本质上都是社会性的
So my journey in autism really started when I lived in a residential unit for adults with autism.	因此，我真正的自闭症之旅始于 我住进一个为成人自闭症患者设立的寓所
Most of those individuals had spent most of their lives in long-stay hospitals. This is a long time ago.	他们中的大多数人生活的大部分时间 都在医院里度过. 这是很久以前的事了.
And for them, autism was devastating.	对他们来说,自闭症是及其可怕的.
They had profound intellectual disabilities.	他们有严重的智力障碍
They didn't talk. But most of all, they were extraordinarily isolated from the world around them, from their environment and from the people.	他们不说话. 但最糟糕的是, 他们极度封闭,生活在自己的世界里 与周围的环境隔绝 与人隔绝
In fact, at the time, if you walked into a school for individuals with autism, you'd hear a lot of noise, plenty of commotion, actions, people doing things, but they're always doing things by themselves.	实际上,如果你走进一个为自闭症患者开办的学校 你会听到很多嘈杂的声音 各种喧闹，各种动作， 都在做着些什么 但他们总是各自做各自的事
So they may be looking at a light in the ceiling, or they may be isolated in the corner, or they might be engaged in these repetitive movements, in self-stimulatory movements that led them nowhere.	有的人可能在看天花板上的一盏灯 有的人可能缩在一个角落里 他们可能不断地重复这些动作 这些自我刺激的动作毫无意义
Extremely, extremely isolated.	他们极度地封闭.
Well, now we know that autism is this disruption, the disruption of this resonance that I am telling you.	现在我们知道了,自闭症是一种功能的混乱 即共鸣功能的混乱， 就是我刚才提到的
These are survival skills.	这些是生存的基本技能
These are survival skills that we inherited over many, many hundreds of thousands of years of evolution.	这些生存技能是我们继承而来的 经由很多很多年的 进化而来的
You see, babies are born in a state of utter fragility.	大家都知道,婴儿生来是很脆弱的
Without the caregiver, they wouldn't survive, so it stands to reason that nature would endow them with these mechanisms of survival.	没有人照顾,他们活不下去 所以很合理地, 大自然赋予他们 一种生存机制.
They orient to the caregiver.	他们会亲近照顾者
From the first days and weeks of life, babies prefer to hear human sounds rather than just sounds in the environment.	在人们出生后的几天到几周里 婴儿更偏好人的声音 相比环境的声音,他们喜欢人声.
They prefer to look at people rather than at things, and even as they're looking at people, they look at people's eyes, because the eye is the window to the other person's experiences, so much so that they even prefer to look at people who are looking at them rather than people who are looking away.	他们喜欢盯着人看,胜过盯着东西看. 甚至当他们看着人时, 他们会看人的眼睛 因为眼睛就是人生经验的一个窗口 因此他们会更喜欢盯着那些正看着他们的人 而不是那些没有看他们的人
Well, they orient to the caregiver.	他们会亲近照顾他们的人
The caregiver seeks the baby.	而照顾者也会亲近婴儿
And it's out of this mutually reinforcing choreography that a lot that is of importance to the emergence of mind, the social mind, the social brain, depends on.	在这种双向互助、一来一往如同舞蹈一样的过程中 对人的思想慢慢形成至关重要的各种因素便产生了 人的社会心理,社会大脑也借此形成.
We always think about autism as something that happens later on in life.	我们总以为自闭症 是后天形成的
It doesn't. It begins with the beginning of life.	其实并非如此. 自闭症在孩子出生的时候就有了.
As babies engage with caregivers, they soon realize that, well, there is something in between the ears that is very important -- it's invisible, you can't see -- but is really critical, and that thing is called attention.	当婴儿和照顾者在一起时, 他们很快便意识到 在两个人的耳朵之间 存在着很重要的东西 这种东西是无形的,你看不见, 但却非常重要 这种东西就是所谓的注意力
And they learn soon enough, even before they can utter one word that they can take that attention and move somewhere in order to get things they want.	他们很快就能学会 甚至在他们会开口说话前,他们转移自己的注意力 以得到自己想要的东西
They also learn to follow other people's gaze, because whatever people are looking at is what they are thinking about.	他们也会跟随着别人的目光 因为人的目光所到之处 就是他们心中所想
And soon enough, they start to learn about the meaning of things, because when somebody is looking at something or somebody is pointing at something, they're not just getting a directional cue, they are getting the other person's meaning of that thing, the attitude, and soon enough they start building this body of meanings, but meanings that were acquired within the realm of social interaction.	很快地,他们开始了解事物的意义 因为当某个人看着一个东西 或指着一个东西时 交流的对方并不仅仅获得一个方向的信息 也获得了他人 对事物意义的理解以及态度 很快地他们开始建立这个意义的系统 但这一系统中意义 要求他们与人进行互动而获得
Those are meanings that are acquired as part of their shared experiences with others.	这些意义 是通过他们与人分享自己的经验而得到的
Well, this is a little 15-month-old little girl, and she has autism.	有个15个月大的小女孩 她有自闭症
And I am coming so close to her that I am maybe two inches from her face, and she's quite oblivious to me.	我靠她非常地近 大概离她的脸只有2英寸,她却完全不理睬我
Imagine if I did that to you, and I came two inches from your face.	想象一下我对你这么做, 离你的脸2英寸那么近
You'd do probably two things, wouldn't you?	你很有可能会有种反应,对吧?
You would recoil. You would call the police.	你可能会往后退,或者叫警察.
You would do something, because it's literally impossible to penetrate somebody's physical space and not get a reaction.	你一定会做点什么. 因为你进去了别人的空间 而不引起反应是不可能的.
We do so, remember, intuitively, effortlessly.	对我们而言，这是自然而然，毫不费劲的.
This is our body wisdom. It's not something that is mediated by our language. Our body just knows that, and we've known that for a long time.	这是我们身体的智慧. 并不是语言教会我们的. 我们的身体就是知道如何反应, 这是我们早就知道的事实.
And this is not something that happens to humans only.	不光是人类会有如此反应.
It happens to some of our phylatic cousins, because if you're a monkey, and you look at another monkey, and that monkey has a higher hierarchy position than you, and that is considered to be a signal or threat, well, you are not going to be alive for long.	对于我们进化上的远亲,也是如此 如果你是一只猴子 你正在看着另一只猴子 另一只猴子比你的等级更高 如果这被看成是一种信号或威胁, 你是不会活很久的
So something that in other species are survival mechanisms, without them they wouldn't basically live, we bring into the context of human beings, and this is what we need to simply act, act socially.	这对其他动物来说是不可缺少的生存技能 离开这些技能他们活不下去 而对于人类社会来说 我们就需要这样反应，互动性的反应
Now, she is oblivious to me, and I am so close to her, and you think, maybe she can see you, maybe she can hear you.	她那样地对我不理不睬，可我离她那么近 可能你觉得，她看得见你 也许她听得到你
Well, a few minutes later, she goes to the corner of the room, and she finds a tiny little piece of candy, an M&amp;M.	可是，几分钟以后， 她会走到屋子里的某个角落 发现地上的小糖果，MM糖。
So I could not attract her attention, but something, a thing, did.	我根本吸引不了她的注意力 但有的东西，某个小物件，却可以！
Now, most of us make a big dichotomy between the world of things and the world of people.	如今，大多数人都会将物的世界与人的世界 分得一清二楚
Now, for this girl, that division line is not so clear, and the world of people is not attracting her as much as we would like.	但是对这个自闭症女孩而言， 这个分割线却不是很清晰 人的世界并不吸引她 但却能吸引我们
Now remember that we learn a great deal by sharing experiences.	我们能从分享经验当中 学到很多东西
Now, what she is doing right now is that her path of learning is diverging moment by moment as she is isolating herself further and further.	但这个自闭症女孩所做的事情 使得她的学习方式越来越偏离正常的轨道， 因为她不断地封闭自己
So we feel sometimes that the brain is deterministic, the brain determines who we are going to be.	有时候我们会觉得大脑是决定性的 它决定我们将要成为什么样的人
But in fact the brain also becomes who we are, and at the same time that her behaviors are taking away from the realm of social interaction, this is what's happening with her mind and this is what's happening with her brain.	但实际上大脑也会被我们的行为影响 当她越来越孤僻 互动越来越少的时候 她的思想和大脑也受到行为的影响
Well, autism is the most strongly genetic condition of all developmental disorders, and it's a brain disorder.	在所有成长障碍中， 自闭症与基因的关系最大， 自闭症是脑部神经错乱引起的
It's a disorder that begins much prior to the time that the child is born.	这种紊乱在孩子早在出生之前 就开始形成了
We now know that there is a very broad spectrum of autism.	我们现在知道自闭症有很多不同的种类
There are those individuals who are profoundly intellectually disabled, but there are those that are gifted.	有很多自闭症患者有严重的智力障碍 但也有很多天赋异禀
There are those individuals who don't talk at all.	有的患者完全不讲话
There are those individuals who talk too much.	又有的会一直说个不停
There are those individuals that if you observe them in their school, you see them running the periphery fence of the school all day if you let them, to those individuals who cannot stop coming to you and trying to engage you repeatedly, relentlessly, but often in an awkward fashion, without that immediate resonance.	有的患者如果你到他们学校里去观察他们 他们会一直围着学校的围墙跑个不停 如果你不阻止他们（他们会一直跑） 有的人会一直不停地跑到你面前来 不断地想引起你的注意 但他们的方式常有点奇怪 从而无法引起你的共鸣
Well, this is much more prevalent than we thought at the time.	自闭症如今要更普遍得多，
When I started in this field, we thought that there were four individuals with autism per 10,000, a very rare condition.	我刚开始进入这个领域时， 我们以为一万个人里差不多有四个自闭症患者 因而，自闭症显得比较罕见
Well, now we know it's more like one in 100.	但现在我们知道，100个人里大概就有一个自闭症患者
There are millions of individuals with autism all around us.	我们的身边有着数百万的患有自闭症的人
The societal cost of this condition is huge.	社会为此而消耗的成本极大
In the U.S. alone, maybe 35 to 80 billion dollars, and you know what? Most of those funds are associated with adolescents and particularly adults who are severely disabled, individuals who need wrap-around services, services that are very, very intensive, and those services can cost in excess of 60 to 80,000 dollars a year.	仅美国这一花费大概就达到了350亿到800亿美元， 大家知道么，这些经费的很大一部分 都被用在青少年， 尤其是那些患有严重障碍的成年人 以及那些需要全方位密集照顾的患者身上 需要极为高强度的照顾 这样的服务大概每年需要花费6万到8万美元
Those are individuals who did not benefit from early treatment, because now we know that autism creates itself as they diverge in that pathway of learning that I mentioned to you.	有的人没有获得早期的治疗 而我们知道，自闭症随着学习方式的不断偏离 而逐渐恶化 就像我刚才提过的那样
Were we to be able to identify this condition at an earlier point, and intervene and treat, I can tell you, and this has been probably something that has changed my life in the past 10 years, this notion that we can absolutely attenuate this condition.	我们能否及早发现自闭症的症状 进行干预与治疗呢? 我可以跟大家说,这个想法 在过去十年大大的改变了我的生活 我们完全可以 减轻自闭症的症状
Also, we have a window of opportunity, because the brain is malleable for just so long, and that window of opportunity happens in the first three years of life.	但是,我们的机会并不多 因为大脑的可塑性只有那么一阵 而这为数不多的机会时间 是人生命的前三年
It's not that that window closes. It doesn't.	这并不是说之后就没有机会了，不是这样的
But it diminishes considerably.	但机会确实是越来越小
And yet, the median age of diagnosis in this country is still about five years, and in disadvantaged populations, the populations that don't have access to clinical services, rural populations, minorities, the age of diagnosis is later still, which is almost as if I were to tell you that we are condemning those communities to have individuals with autism whose condition is going to be more severe.	在美国，被诊断出自闭症的年龄 仍然在五岁左右 但在一些贫困地区 或一些医疗条件不好的地区 农村人口以及少数族裔自闭症患者 被确诊的年龄还要滞后 这就好像我们要和他们说 那些社区的自闭症患情况 会越来越严重
So I feel that we have a bio-ethical imperative.	所以我觉得我们在生物伦理上负有责任。
The science is there, but no science is of relevance if it doesn't have an impact on the community, and we just can't afford that missed opportunity, because children with autism become adults with autism, and we feel that those things that we can do for these children, for those families, early on, will have lifetime consequences, for the child, for the family, and for the community at large.	技术已经有了 但技术如果无法对社区产生影响 那么技术也就不存在，我们若不抓住机会， 后果将不是我们所能负担的。 因为自闭症孩子会变成患有自闭症的成人， 我们能为孩子们、为他们的家庭做的事情 如果早一点做到， 将会产生影响终身的作用， 不管是对孩子，还是对其家庭以及社区而言都是如此
So this is our view of autism.	这就是我们对于自闭症的看法
There are over a hundred genes that are associated with autism. In fact, we believe that there are going to be something between 300 and 600 genes associated with autism, and genetic anomalies, much more than just genes.	和自闭症有关的基因多达一百个 实际上，我们相信，很有可能 将会有300到600个基因是与自闭症有关的 不仅仅是基因，而是基因异常
And we actually have a bit of a question here, because if there are so many different causes of autism, how do you go from those liabilities to the actual syndrome? Because people like myself, when we walk into a playroom, we recognize a child as having autism.	这时候我们遇到一个问题 既然有那么多引起自闭症的原因 那我们可不可以根据这些异常基因 来追查具体的症状呢？ 像我这样的人 当我们进入一个游戏室时， 我们就能判断一个孩子是否有自闭症
So how do you go from multiple causes to a syndrome that has some homogeneity?	那要怎样从很多的形成原因中 追查一系列相似的症状呢？
And the answer is, what lies in between, which is development.	答案就在成因与症状之间， 即孩子的成长
And in fact, we are very interested in those first two years of life, because those liabilities don't necessarily convert into autism.	事实上，我们对孩子两岁前的生活非常感兴趣 因为那些不利因素 未必一定会演变成自闭症
Autism creates itself.	自闭症会自行形成
Were we to be able to intervene during those years of life, we might attenuate for some, and God knows, maybe even prevent for others.	我们能否在那些年里进行干预？ 我们也许能减轻一些症状，谁知道呢！ 也许还能阻止一些人得上自闭症
So how do we do that?	那我们该怎么做呢？
How do we enter that feeling of resonance, how do we enter another person's being?	我们怎么样能引起共鸣？ 怎么样进入到别人的存在当中？
I remember when I interacted with that 15-month-older, that the thing that came to mind was, "How do you come into her world?	我记得当我和那个15个月大的孩子在一起互动时， 我脑子里只有一件事 "怎么样才能进入到她的世界呢？"
Is she thinking about me? Is she thinking about others?"	"她是在想着我么？还是她正在想着别人？"
Well, it's hard to do that, so we had to create the technologies. We had to basically step inside a body.	这很难做到，我们必须倚靠技术 我们必须到她身体内部的世界中去
We had to see the world through her eyes.	我们要从她的眼睛看世界。
And so in the past many years we've been building these new technologies that are based on eye tracking.	所以过去的很多年我们都在做一项技术 以眼球追踪为基础，
We can see moment by moment what children are engaging with.	我们可以看到在每个不同的时刻， 孩子们都是被什么吸引了
Well, this is my colleague Warren Jones, with whom we've been building these methods, these studies, for the past 12 years, and you see there a happy five-month-older, it's a five-month little boy who is going to watch things that are brought from his world, his mom, the caregiver, but also experiences that he would have were he to be in his daycare.	这是我的同事，Warren Jones, 我们一起研究创造这些方法， 整整研究了12年， 你看这是一个五个月大的婴儿 这个五月大的男孩将要去观看别的事物， 就是他世界里存在的事物， 他的妈妈，照顾他的人，还有一些 他日间被照顾时的各种经历
What we want is to embrace that world and bring it into our laboratory, but in order for us to do that, we had to create these very sophisticated measures, measures of how people, how little babies, how newborns, engage with the world, moment by moment, what is important, and what is not.	我们所要做的，就是拥抱他的世界， 并把那世界带到实验室来， 但为了达到这个目的， 我们要创建很精密的测量方法， 测量人们以及婴儿 如何与世界互动的方法 每个时刻都要测量 从而知道什么是重要的，什么是不重要的
Well, we created those measures, and here, what you see is what we call a funnel of attention.	我们创建了这些测量方法， 现在大家所看到的这个东西叫 "注意力漏斗"
You're watching a video.	你们看到的这个视频
Those frames are separated by about a second through the eyes of 35 typically developing two-year-olds, and we freeze one frame, and this is what the typical children are doing.	每幅影像的间距大约是一秒 这是35个正常孩子所看到的世界 他们都是两岁大的孩子 当我们停在其中一幅影像上时 这是正常的孩子在做的事情
In this scan pass, in green here, are two-year-olds with autism.	而绿色的地方，是自闭症的孩子在做的事情
So on that frame, the children who are typical are watching this, the emotion of expression of that little boy as he's fighting a little bit with the little girl.	视频停留在那个画面上时， 正常孩子在看这些， 再看那个小男孩情绪的反应 那个小男孩和那个小女孩正在闹矛盾
What are the children with autism doing?	而自闭症的孩子在做什么呢？
They are focusing on the revolving door, opening and shutting.	他们会注意那个不断转动的门， 看着门开了又关，关了又开
Well, I can tell you that this divergence that you're seeing here doesn't happen only in our five-minute experiment.	我可以告诉大家， 这里就有了差异， 这不仅仅发生在我们5分钟的实验里
It happens moment by moment in their real lives, and their minds are being formed, and their brains are being specialized in something other than what is happening with their typical peers.	而在他们生活里的每一分钟都发生着， 他们的心智就此而形成， 它们的脑子在其他的方面不断发展， 而这些方面与他们同龄的伙伴有所不同
Well, we took a construct from our pediatrician friends, the concept of growth charts.	这里有一个结构图， 这是从我们的儿科医生朋友那里拿过来的， 这是一幅关于生长曲线概念的图，
You know, when you take a child to the pediatrician, and so you have physical height, and weight.	你知道，你带一个孩子去看儿科医生时， 你会得到他的身高，体重
Well we decided that we're going to create growth charts of social engagement, and we sought children from the time that they are born, and what you see here on the x-axis is two, three, four, five, six months and nine, until about the age of 24 months, and this is the percent of their viewing time that they are focusing on people's eyes, and this is their growth chart.	所以我们决定我们要作出一个 社交发展的成长图 我们找了很多孩子参与实验，从他们出生开始 大家可以看到X轴上写着2，3，4， 5，6，到9，一直到大概24个月 这些是他们盯着人的眼睛 看的时间百分比， 这就是他们的成长表
They start over here, they love people's eyes, and it remains quite stable.	他们爱看人的眼睛，从这里开始， 基本上很平稳，
It sort of goes up a little bit in those initial months.	在最初的几个月里它还上升了一些.
Now, let's see what's happening with babies who became autistic.	我们再来看看 这些有自闭症的孩子的曲线.
It's something very different.	非常的不同
It starts way up here, but then it's a free fall.	刚开始很高，然后就一直下降。
It's very much like they brought into this world the reflex that orients them to people, but it has no traction.	这表明，他们本来具有追寻人眼神的能力 但后来却不再被吸引了
It's almost as if that stimulus, you, you're not exerting influence on what happens as they navigate their daily lives.	这就是说，你，作为一个外界的刺激 你对他们产生不了影响了 在他们探索日常生活的过程中你不无关紧要
Now, we thought that those data were so powerful in a way, that we wanted to see what happened in the first six months of life, because if you interact with a two- and a three-month-older, you'd be surprised by how social those babies are.	这些数据如此重要， 以致于我们非常想知道在出生后的六个月里， 到底发生了什么， 因为当你开始与一个两三个月大的孩子互动时， 你会对这些孩子的社会性感到惊讶
And what we see in the first six months of life is that those two groups can be segregated very easily.	我们在那六个月看到了一个情况， 这两组孩子很容易被区分开来
And using these kinds of measures, and many others, what we found out is that our science could, in fact, identify this condition early on.	通过这些方法或者其它的方法， 我们发现，实际上我们的科学， 是可以及早地诊断出自闭症的
We didn't have to wait for the behaviors of autism to emerge in the second year of life.	我们不需要等到第二年 自闭症的症状开始出现时才确诊
If we measured things that are, evolutionarily, highly conserved, and developmentally very early emerging, things that are online from the first weeks of life, we could push the detection of autism all the way to those first months, and that's what we are doing now.	如果我们测量的东西是进化而来， 并保存下来的，且出现的时间非常早的话， 尤其是出生后几周就出现的症状， 我们就可以将对其诊断提前到， 提早到出生后的两个月内， 这就使我们如今在研究的内容，
Now, we can create the very best technologies and the very best methods to identify the children, but this would be for naught if we didn't have an impact on what happens in their reality in the community.	现在，我们可以创造出最好的科学技术， 还有最好的方法来争端那些患自闭症的孩子 但如果我们不能改变他们的现实情况， 这一切都徒劳无功.
Now we want those devices, of course, to be deployed by those who are in the trenches, our colleagues, the primary care physicians, who see every child, and we need to transform those technologies into something that is going to add value to their practice, because they have to see so many children.	当然了，我们现在需要各种设备 能被送到第一线的工作人员那里 我们的同事，那些坐诊的医生， 他们能见到每个孩子， 我们需要把这些技术， 转变成对他们的工作有实际用处和价值的东西， 因为他们要帮助那么多孩子，
And we want to do that universally so that we don't miss any child, but this would be immoral if we also did not have an infrastructure for intervention, for treatment.	我们希望我们的成果能广泛推广， 这样我们就不会漏掉任何一个孩子， 但如果没有完善的基础设施， 和干预治疗的方法 那这也是违反这会责任与道德，
We need to be able to work with the families, to support the families, to manage those first years with them. We need to be able to really go from universal screening to universal access to treatment, because those treatments are going to change these children's and those families' lives.	我们需要能够与家庭合作， 去支持那些家庭，在最开始的几年里与他们一起， 我们需要从诊断他们是否患病， 发展到普遍有效的治疗方法， 因为这些治疗将会改变 孩子与他们家人的生活
Now, when we think about what we [can] do in those first years, I can tell you, having been in this field for so long, one feels really rejuvenated.	现在，我们要想想我们能做些什么， 我可以告诉大家， 在这个领域这么多年， 最开始的几年， 人会觉得自己很年轻充满干劲，
There is a sense that the science that one worked on can actually have an impact on realities, preventing, in fact, those experiences that I really started in my journey in this field.	会感觉我自己所钻研的科学 真的能给现实带来影响， 可以让其他人不再重蹈我的覆辙 不走我走过的老路，
I thought at the time that this was an intractable condition.	我那时以为自闭症是个无法治愈的疾病
No longer. We can do a great deal of things.	但如今再也不这么想了。 我们可以做很多事情。
And the idea is not to cure autism.	我们的想法并不是说要完全治愈自闭症。
That's not the idea.	那不是我们要的。
What we want is to make sure that those individuals with autism can be free from the devastating consequences that come with it at times, the profound intellectual disabilities, the lack of language, the profound, profound isolation.	我们要的，是要确认， 那些患了自闭症的人 能从那些可怕的结果中释放出来，得到自由 不再是严重的智障，或者是语言能力的缺失， 也不再极度的封闭
We feel that individuals with autism, in fact, have a very special perspective on the world, and we need diversity, and they can work extremely well in some areas of strength: predictable situations, situations that can be defined.	我们觉得实际上自闭症患者， 看待世界的视角非常的特别， 我们需要这样的多样性， 他们能做得特别好， 在一些他们擅长的领域， 在可预测的情况下，可掌控的情况下。
Because after all, they learn about the world almost like about it, rather than learning how to function in it.	毕竟他们专注于世界本来的面貌， 而不是学习怎样在世界上生存，
But this is a strength, if you're working, for example, in technology.	这就是一个长项。 例如，当你的工作在技术层面时 这就是一个长项。
And there are those individuals who have incredible artistic abilities.	还有一些人，具有极高的天分 艺术上的天分
We want them to be free of that.	我们希望他们也能自由施展，
We want that the next generations of individuals with autism will be able not only to express their strengths but to fulfill their promise.	我们希望下一代患有自闭症的人 不仅能发挥他们的长处， 更能实现他们美好的梦想。
Well thank you for listening to me.	谢谢
So here's the good news about families.	我这有一条关于家庭的好消息。
The last 50 years have seen a revolution in what it means to be a family.	在过去的50年里，家庭的意义 有了革命性的改变
We have blended families, adopted families, we have nuclear families living in separate houses and divorced families living in the same house.	出现了离异后重新组合的家庭，收养关系组成的家庭， 出现了独立出来居住的小家庭， 也出现了住在同一座房子里的离异家庭。
But through it all, the family has grown stronger.	但是经过这些年，家庭关系变得更加稳固了。
Eight in 10 say the family they have today is as strong or stronger than the family they grew up in.	80%的人认为他们现在所在的家庭 和他们成长所处的家庭一样稳固，或更加稳固。
Now, here's the bad news.	现在，我要说一条坏消息。
Nearly everyone is completely overwhelmed by the chaos of family life.	几乎所有人的家庭生活都陷入了 完全的混乱中。
Every parent I know, myself included, feels like we're constantly playing defense.	我认识的每一个父母，也包括我自己， 都觉得我们在家庭中一直在扮演防御的角色。
Just when our kids stop teething, they start having tantrums.	当我们的孩子结束长牙时，他们开始会发脾气。
Just when they stop needing our help taking a bath, they need our help dealing with cyberstalking or bullying.	当他们不再需要我们帮忙洗澡的时候， 他们需要我们帮助处理网络跟踪和恃强凌弱的行为。
And here's the worst news of all.	接下来是最坏的消息。
Our children sense we're out of control.	我们的孩子感觉到我们失控了。
Ellen Galinsky of the Families and Work Institute asked 1,000 children, "If you were granted one wish about your parents, what would it be?"	家庭与工作研究所的埃伦·林斯基 问了1000个孩子，"如果你们可以 许一个关于你们父母的愿望，你会许什么愿望？"
The parents predicted the kids would say, spending more time with them.	父母都预测他们的孩子会说， 和他们相处的时间长一些。
They were wrong. The kids' number one wish?	他们错了。孩子们排行第一的愿望是什么呢？
That their parents be less tired and less stressed.	是希望他们的父母可以少累一点，少一些压力。
So how can we change this dynamic?	所以我们怎么才能改变这个现象呢？
Are there concrete things we can do to reduce stress, draw our family closer, and generally prepare our children to enter the world?	有没有什么具体的方法可以让我们减轻压力， 让我们的家庭更亲密， 使我们的孩子更好的准备进入这个世界？
I spent the last few years trying to answer that question, traveling around, meeting families, talking to scholars, experts ranging from elite peace negotiators to Warren Buffett's bankers to the Green Berets.	过去几年我一直在寻找这个问题的答案， 去了许多地方，探访了不同家庭，跟学者们交谈， 跟不同领域的专家，包括进行和平谈判的精英， 沃伦·巴菲特的银行家，和绿色贝雷帽 （美国陆军特种部队）
I was trying to figure out, what do happy families do right and what can I learn from them to make my family happier?	我在试着找出，幸福的家庭做对了什么， 我又能从他们那里学到什么可以让我的家庭更幸福？
I want to tell you about one family that I met, and why I think they offer clues.	我想告诉你们我认识的一个家庭的故事， 和我为什么觉得他们提供了线索。
At 7 p.m. on a Sunday in Hidden Springs, Idaho, where the six members of the Starr family are sitting down to the highlight of their week: the family meeting.	星期天晚上7点，在爱达荷州的隐泉区， 斯塔尔家的6个成员坐在一起 参加他们每周的重点活动：家庭会议。
The Starrs are a regular American family with their share of regular American family problems.	斯塔尔家是一个普通的美国家庭 有着普通美国家庭都会有的问题。
David is a software engineer. Eleanor takes care of their four children, ages 10 to 15.	大卫是一位软件工程师。埃莉诺照顾 他们的四个孩子，10岁到15岁。
One of those kids tutors math on the far side of town.	其中一个孩子在小镇较远的那边做数学家教。
One has lacrosse on the near side of town.	一个在小镇较近的那边参加曲棍球队。
One has Asperger syndrome. One has ADHD.	一个有阿斯伯格综合症。一个有注意力不足过动症。
"We were living in complete chaos," Eleanor said.	"我们生活在完全的混乱中，"埃莉诺说。
What the Starrs did next, though, was surprising.	而斯塔尔家接下来发生的事情就显得与众不同了。
Instead of turning to friends or relatives, they looked to David's workplace.	他们没有向朋友或亲戚诉苦， 而是从大卫的工作中寻找解决方法。
They turned to a cutting-edge program called agile development that was just spreading from manufacturers in Japan to startups in Silicon Valley.	他们采用了一种称为"敏捷开发"的管理方式 这种管理方式当时刚刚从日本的制造业 流传到硅谷的初创公司。
In agile, workers are organized into small groups and do things in very short spans of time.	在敏捷开发中，工作人员被分成一些小组， 做时间跨度很短的工作。
So instead of having executives issue grand proclamations, the team in effect manages itself.	不再需要高层领导不断的发号施令，这些小团队能够 高效率的进行自我管理。
You have constant feedback. You have daily update sessions.	你不断的得到反馈，每天都更新自己的进程，
You have weekly reviews. You're constantly changing.	你每周都进行回顾，持续不断的改变。
David said when they brought this system into their home, the family meetings in particular increased communication, decreased stress, and made everybody happier to be part of the family team.	大卫说在他们把这套管理方式引入家庭之后， 家庭会议上的交流变多了， 压力变少了，这让每个人 作为家庭成员都更加开心。
When my wife and I adopted these family meetings and other techniques into the lives of our then-five-year-old twin daughters, it was the biggest single change we made since our daughters were born.	当我和妻子将这种家庭会议和其他一些技术 引入到我们当时只有五岁的双胞胎女儿的生活中时， 这是我们在女儿出生后做过的最大的改变。
And these meetings had this effect while taking under 20 minutes.	这些会议确实管用 并且会议时间不超过20分钟。
So what is Agile, and why can it help with something that seems so different, like families?	什么是敏捷开发，为什么它可以帮助 看起来很不一样的系统，像是家庭？
In 1983, Jeff Sutherland was a technologist at a financial firm in New England.	在1983年，杰夫·萨瑟兰是一名技术专家， 在新英格兰地区的一家金融公司，
He was very frustrated with how software got designed.	他对当时的软件设计方法感到沮丧。
Companies followed the waterfall method, right, in which executives issued orders that slowly trickled down to programmers below, and no one had ever consulted the programmers.	公司遵循这个瀑布开发模型，对吧， 这里高层管理人员宣布命令，然后慢慢渗透 到下面的程序员那里。 但是从没有人咨询过这些程序员。
Eighty-three percent of projects failed.	83％的项目都失败了。
They were too bloated or too out of date by the time they were done.	当这些项目终于被完成时， 往往延期很久，或预算严重超支。
Sutherland wanted to create a system where ideas didn't just percolate down but could percolate up from the bottom and be adjusted in real time.	萨瑟兰想要创造一个系统 让灵感不仅可以自上而下的传播，而且可以自下而上的聚集， 并且能够及时的调整。
He read 30 years of Harvard Business Review before stumbling upon an article in 1986 called "The New New Product Development Game."	他翻阅了30年的《哈佛商业评论》杂志 发现了在1986年发表的一篇文章 叫做"新新产品开发游戏"。
It said that the pace of business was quickening -- and by the way, this was in 1986 -- and the most successful companies were flexible.	里面说商业的脚步正在加快－ 注意，这是1986－ 最成功的公司都很灵活。
It highlighted Toyota and Canon and likened their adaptable, tight-knit teams to rugby scrums.	里面点出了丰田和佳能 说他们紧密的团队就像英式橄榄球争球.
As Sutherland told me, we got to that article, and said, "That's it."	根据萨瑟兰告诉我的，我们找到了这篇文章， 说，"就是这个了，"
In Sutherland's system, companies don't use large, massive projects that take two years.	在萨瑟兰的系统中，公司不做 很大的，要拖两年之久的项目。
They do things in small chunks.	他们把事情分成小部分。
Nothing takes longer than two weeks.	任何事情都在两个星期内完成。
So instead of saying, "You guys go off into that bunker and come back with a cell phone or a social network," you say, "You go off and come up with one element, then bring it back. Let's talk about it. Let's adapt."	他们不会说，"你们躲到一个仓库里好好研究 等做出来个电话或者社交网络再回来，" 你会说，"你们先做出来一个元件， 然后把它带回来。我们讨论一下，看看是否需要调整。"
You succeed or fail quickly.	你很快就知道是否行得通。
Today, agile is used in a hundred countries, and it's sweeping into management suites.	现在，敏捷开发在上百个国家得到运用， 而且快速的融入了管理阶层。
Inevitably, people began taking some of these techniques and applying it to their families.	必然的，人们开始将其中一些技术 引入到自己的家庭中。
You had blogs pop up, and some manuals were written.	你能找到一些相关的博客文章，里面总结了一些运用守则。
Even the Sutherlands told me that they had an Agile Thanksgiving, where you had one group of people working on the food, one setting the table, and one greeting visitors at the door.	就连萨瑟兰都告诉我他们有过 一个敏捷式的感恩节， 一组人准备食物， 一组人在布置桌子，还有人在门口迎接来客。
Sutherland said it was the best Thanksgiving ever.	萨瑟兰说这是他们有过的最好的感恩节。
So let's take one problem that families face, crazy mornings, and talk about how agile can help.	现在我们从家庭面临的问题中挑出一个， "匆忙的早晨"，讨论下敏捷管理如何帮助改进。
A key plank is accountability, so teams use information radiators, these large boards in which everybody is accountable.	要点是明确责任， 在团队中使用"信息辐射体"， 就是那些大白板来明确每个人的责任。
So the Starrs, in adapting this to their home, created a morning checklist in which each child is expected to tick off chores.	斯塔尔家也采用了这种方法， 他们制作了一个早晨工作的清单 里面包含了每个孩子需要完成的家务。
So on the morning I visited, Eleanor came downstairs, poured herself a cup of coffee, sat in a reclining chair, and she sat there, kind of amiably talking to each of her children as one after the other they came downstairs, checked the list, made themselves breakfast, checked the list again, put the dishes in the dishwasher, rechecked the list, fed the pets or whatever chores they had, checked the list once more, gathered their belongings, and made their way to the bus.	我去拜访的那天早晨，埃莉诺从楼上下来， 给她自己倒了一杯咖啡，坐在了摇椅上， 她就坐在那里， 和蔼的和她每一个孩子说话 看着他们一个接一个的下楼， 检查他们的清单，给他们自己做早餐， 再检查他们的清单，把盘子放在洗碗机内， 然后又检查清单，喂宠物或者其他他们需要负责的家务， 最后一次检查他们的清单，整理好他们的东西， 然后出门去坐校车了。
It was one of the most astonishing family dynamics I have ever seen.	这是我所看过的最惊人的家庭运作方式。
And when I strenuously objected this would never work in our house, our kids needed way too much monitoring, Eleanor looked at me.	当我极力表示这绝对不会在我家实现的， 我们的孩子需要太多监督了， 埃莉诺看着我。
"That's what I thought," she said.	"我原来也这么想，"她说。
"I told David, 'keep your work out of my kitchen.' But I was wrong."	"我告诉大卫，'不要把你的工作带到我的厨房。' 但是我错了。"
So I turned to David: "So why does it work?"	所以我问大卫，"这个为什么会管用？"
He said, "You can't underestimate the power of doing this."	他说，"你不能低估这个动作的威力。"
And he made a checkmark.	他画了一个对号。（钩形符号"✔"，表示已核对无误。)
He said, "In the workplace, adults love it.	他说，"在工作场合，成人都很爱它。
With kids, it's heaven."	对于孩子们，这跟天堂一样。"
The week we introduced a morning checklist into our house, it cut parental screaming in half.	我们把这个清晨清单带入我们家的那个星期， 父母吼叫的次数减半了。
But the real change didn't come until we had these family meetings.	但是真正的改变直到我们开始了家庭会议才出现。
So following the agile model, we ask three questions: What worked well in our family this week, what didn't work well, and what will we agree to work on in the week ahead?	我们遵循了敏捷方式，问自己三个问题： 这个星期家里什么运作良好， 什么不好，还有我们下个星期希望做哪些改变？
Everyone throws out suggestions and then we pick two to focus on.	每个人都会给出建议 然后我们挑选两个来关注。
And suddenly the most amazing things started coming out of our daughters' mouths.	突然之间，最了不起的话开始从我们女儿们的嘴里说出来。
What worked well this week?	这个星期什么运行的好？
Getting over our fear of riding bikes. Making our beds.	我们不再怕骑车了，我们会整理自己的床。
What didn't work well? Our math sheets, or greeting visitors at the door.	什么做的不好？我们的数学作业， 以及在门口迎接客人。
Like a lot of parents, our kids are something like Bermuda Triangles.	跟很多父母一样，（我们觉得）我们的孩子就像百慕大三角。
Like, thoughts and ideas go in, but none ever comes out, I mean at least not that are revealing.	跟他们说什么道理和要求都没有效果， 我的意思是，最起码没表现出来。
This gave us access suddenly to their innermost thoughts.	（家庭会议）突然让我们能够了解他们最深层的想法了。
But the most surprising part was when we turned to, what are we going to work on in the week ahead?	但是最令人吃惊的是当我们讨论 下一周我们需要做哪些工作的时候。
You know, the key idea of agile is that teams essentially manage themselves, and it works in software and it turns out that it works with kids.	你知道，敏捷方式的核心理论是 团队实质上在管理他们自己， 这个理念在软件上管用，在孩子们身上也有作用。
Our kids love this process.	我们的孩子很爱这个过程。
So they would come up with all these ideas.	他们会想出各种各样的主意。
You know, greet five visitors at the door this week, get an extra 10 minutes of reading before bed.	像这个星期在门口迎接五个客人， 就可以另外得到10分钟的睡前读书时间。
Kick someone, lose desserts for a month.	踢别人，就一个月不能吃甜点。
It turns out, by the way, our girls are little Stalins.	我们发现了，顺便说一下， 我们的女儿们跟小斯大林一样。
We constantly have to kind of dial them back.	我们需要不断的提醒他们不要太严厉。
Now look, naturally there's a gap between their kind of conduct in these meetings and their behavior the rest of the week, but the truth is it didn't really bother us.	现在来看，她们在家庭会议上的计划 不会百分百的在下个星期得到落实， 但是我们实际上并不在意。
It felt like we were kind of laying these underground cables that wouldn't light up their world for many years to come.	感觉上就像我们在建设地下电缆 在许多年后才会照亮他们的世界。
Three years later -- our girls are almost eight now -- We're still holding these meetings.	三年之后－我们的女孩们现在快八岁了－ 我们仍然在进行这些会议。
My wife counts them among her most treasured moments as a mom.	我妻子认为这个她作为妈妈最宝贵的时刻之一。
So what did we learn?	所以我们从中学到了什么？
The word "agile" entered the lexicon in 2001 when Jeff Sutherland and a group of designers met in Utah and wrote a 12-point Agile Manifesto.	Agile这个词在2001年被纳入了词典 那一年杰夫·萨瑟兰和一些设计师 在犹他州碰面，并写下了12点《敏捷宣言》。
I think the time is right for an Agile Family Manifesto.	我认为是时候做一个《敏捷家庭宣言》了。
I've taken some ideas from the Starrs and from many other families I met.	我从斯塔尔家和我拜访过的许多其他家庭中得到了一些主意。
I'm proposing three planks.	我提出三个重点。
Plank number one: Adapt all the time.	重点一：随时调整适应。
When I became a parent, I figured, you know what?	当我成为一名父亲的时候，我就想，这样吧
We'll set a few rules and we'll stick to them.	我们就定下几条规定，然后就按照规定做。
That assumes, as parents, we can anticipate every problem that's going to arise.	这里的假设是我们作为父母可以预料到所有可能出现的问题。
We can't. What's great about the agile system is you build in a system of change so that you can react to what's happening to you in real time.	我们不能。敏捷系统很棒的一点 是你在一个变化的系统中建立的 这使你可以随时对发生的状况做出反应。
It's like they say in the Internet world: if you're doing the same thing today you were doing six months ago, you're doing the wrong thing.	互联网业界流传着一句话： 如果你今天做着和六个月前一样的事情， 你一定做错了。
Parents can learn a lot from that.	父母可以从中学到很多。
But to me, "adapt all the time" means something deeper, too.	对我来说，"随时调整适应" 有着更深层的含义。
We have to break parents out of this straitjacket that the only ideas we can try at home are ones that come from shrinks or self-help gurus or other family experts.	我们父母必须从以前的教条中解放出来， 家庭管理并不是只能听从 心理医生，自助专家，或者家庭专家 提供的建议。
The truth is, their ideas are stale, whereas in all these other worlds there are these new ideas to make groups and teams work effectively.	事实上，他们的建议过时了， 而世界上所有其他领域都有新的技术 让小组和团队更加高效率的工作。
Let's just take a few examples.	就让我们来看几个例子。
Let's take the biggest issue of all: family dinner.	来看一下最大的问题：家庭晚餐。
Everybody knows that having family dinner with your children is good for the kids.	所有人都知道家庭晚餐 和孩子们一起对他们有好处。
But for so many of us, it doesn't work in our lives.	但是对于我们大多数人来说，无法在生活中实现。
I met a celebrity chef in New Orleans who said, "No problem, I'll just time-shift family dinner.	我在新奥尔良认识的一位明星厨师说过， "没问题，我把家庭晚餐时间改了就好了。
I'm not home, can't make family dinner?	我不在家，不能弄家庭晚餐？
We'll have family breakfast. We'll meet for a bedtime snack.	那我们就来家庭早餐。在睡前点心时间见面也可以。
We'll make Sunday meals more important."	我们把周日的聚餐弄得更重要一些。"
And the truth is, recent research backs him up.	事实就是，最近的研究同意他的观点。
It turns out there's only 10 minutes of productive time in any family meal.	研究发现在任何家庭聚餐中只有 十分钟的有效时间。
The rest of it's taken up with "take your elbows off the table" and "pass the ketchup."	剩下的时间说的都是"把你的臂肘放下去"和"把番茄酱递给我。"
You can take that 10 minutes and move it to any part of the day and have the same benefit.	你可以把这十分钟挪到 一天里的任何时段，效果是一样的。
So time-shift family dinner. That's adaptability.	所有挪开家庭晚餐的时间。这就是适应性。
An environmental psychologist told me, "If you're sitting in a hard chair on a rigid surface, you'll be more rigid.	一位环境心理学家告诉过我， "如果你坐在硬椅子或硬平台上， 你会比较死板。
If you're sitting on a cushioned chair, you'll be more open."	如果你坐在软垫的椅子上，你会比较开放。"
She told me, "When you're discipling your children, sit in an upright chair with a cushioned surface.	她还说，"当你在惩罚你的孩子时， 坐在一个直立的带软垫的椅子上。
The conversation will go better."	谈话会比较顺利。"
My wife and I actually moved where we sit for difficult conversations because I was sitting above in the power position.	我跟我妻子真的改变了进行严肃谈话时坐的位置， 因为我以前坐得比较高，显得强势。
So move where you sit. That's adaptability.	所以改变你的座位。这就是适应性。
The point is there are all these new ideas out there.	我要说的就是到处都有这种新的想法。
We've got to hook them up with parents.	父母们需要将这些结合起来。
So plank number one: Adapt all the time.	这就是重点一：随时调整适应。
Be flexible, be open-minded, let the best ideas win.	要灵活，要开放，让最好的主意胜出。
Plank number two: Empower your children.	重点二：给你的孩子权利。
Our instinct as parents is to order our kids around.	我们作为父母的潜意识是命令我们的孩子做事情。
It's easier, and frankly, we're usually right.	这比较简单，坦率地说，我们一般都是对的。
There's a reason that few systems have been more waterfall over time than the family.	这是家庭比其它系统更加倾向于 瀑布管理模型的原因之一。
But the single biggest lesson we learned is to reverse the waterfall as much as possible.	但是我们学到的最重要的一堂课就是 尽最大可能逆转这种管理模式。
Enlist the children in their own upbringing.	让孩子们在成长中掌控自己。
Just yesterday, we were having our family meeting, and we had voted to work on overreacting.	就在昨天，我们开家庭会议， 我们在讨论如何改善"反应过度"的行为。
So we said, "Okay, give us a reward and give us a punishment. Okay?"	我们说，"好的，我们规定一个奖励和一个惩罚，好吗？"
So one of my daughters threw out, you get five minutes of overreacting time all week.	我们一个女儿提出，每人每星期有5分钟的反应过度时间。
So we kind of liked that.	我们都觉得这个还不错。
But then her sister started working the system.	但是她妹妹开始改进这个系统。
She said, "Do I get one five-minute overreaction or can I get 10 30-second overreactions?"	她说。"我会得到一个5分钟的反应过度时间 还是十个三十秒钟的反应过度时间？"
I loved that. Spend the time however you want.	我很爱这点。你可以自由分配这个时间。
Now give us a punishment. Okay.	现在给我们一个惩罚。好的
If we get 15 minutes of overreaction time, that's the limit.	如果我们有十五分钟的反应过度时间，这是极限。
Every minute above that, we have to do one pushup.	超出范围的每一分钟，我们必须做一个俯卧撑。
So you see, this is working. Now look, this system isn't lax.	所以你可以看到，系统在运转。现在可以看到，这个系统是玩真的。
There's plenty of parental authority going on.	我们保留了很多父母的权威。
But we're giving them practice becoming independent, which of course is our ultimate goal.	但是我们让孩子们练习独立， 这也是我们的最终目的。
Just as I was leaving to come here tonight, one of my daughters started screaming.	就当我今晚要离开家来这的时候， 我们的一个女儿开始尖叫。
The other one said, "Overreaction! Overreaction!"	另一个就开始说，"反应过度！反应过度！"
and started counting, and within 10 seconds it had ended.	而且开始了数数，十秒钟之内尖叫就停止了。
To me that is a certified agile miracle.	对我来说，这是一个见证敏捷奇迹的时刻。
And by the way, research backs this up too.	顺便说一下，也有研究支持这一点。
Children who plan their own goals, set weekly schedules, evaluate their own work build up their frontal cortex and take more control over their lives.	孩子们计划他们自己的目标，设定每周计划， 评估他们自己的工作会增强他们的额叶皮层 也会更好的控制他们的生活。
The point is, we have to let our children succeed on their own terms, and yes, on occasion, fail on their own terms.	我要说的点是，我们必须要让孩子们在他们自己努力下成功， 当然还有，有时候，在他们自己的努力下失败。
I was talking to Warren Buffett's banker, and he was chiding me for not letting my children make mistakes with their allowance.	我曾和一位沃伦·巴菲特的银行家谈话， 他指责我不允许我的孩子 在他们的限度内犯错误。
And I said, "But what if they drive into a ditch?"	我说，"如果他们惹麻烦怎么办？"
He said, "It's much better to drive into a ditch with a $6 allowance than a $60,000-a-year salary or a $6 million inheritance."	他说，"他们现在用6块钱零花钱惹麻烦 要比到年薪六万年薪或者继承了六百万美元遗产的时候 惹麻烦好得多。"
So the bottom line is, empower your children.	所以底线就是，给你的孩子权利。
Plank number three: Tell your story.	重点三：讲述你的故事。
Adaptability is fine, but we also need bedrock.	适应性很好，但是我们还需要基石。
Jim Collins, the author of "Good To Great," told me that successful human organizations of any kind have two things in common: they preserve the core, they stimulate progress.	吉姆·柯林斯, "从优秀到卓越"的作者， 告诉过我任何形势的人类组织 都有两个共同点： 他们维持核心价值，并激励发展。
So agile is great for stimulating progress, but I kept hearing time and again, you need to preserve the core.	敏捷系统能很好的刺激发展， 但是我一直不断的听到，你需要维持核心价值。
So how do you do that?	所以你改怎么做呢？
Collins coached us on doing something that businesses do, which is define your mission and identify your core values.	柯林斯教我们做 企业做的事，就是定义你的使命 和确定你的核心价值。
So he led us through the process of creating a family mission statement.	他带领我们创立一个家庭使命.
We did the family equivalent of a corporate retreat.	我们做了一个家庭版的企业活动。
We had a pajama party.	我们办了一个睡衣派对。
I made popcorn. Actually, I burned one, so I made two.	我做了爆米花。实际上，我烧焦了一个，所以我做了两个。
My wife bought a flip chart.	我妻子买了一个挂图。
And we had this great conversation, like, what's important to us?	然后我们进行了很棒的谈话，比如，什么对我们来说重要？
What values do we most uphold?	我们最坚持什么价值？
And we ended up with 10 statements.	我们最后得出了十条定论。
We are travelers, not tourists.	我们是旅客，不是游客。
We don't like dilemmas. We like solutions.	我们不喜欢困境。我们喜欢解决。
Again, research shows that parents should spend less time worrying about what they do wrong and more time focusing on what they do right, worry less about the bad times and build up the good times.	再说一次，研究表示父母需要更少的 担心孩子们办了什么错事 更多的关注他们做的对的地方， 少担心不好的时候，建立更多的好时光。
This family mission statement is a great way to identify what it is that you do right.	这个家庭使命可以很好的坚定 你做的哪些是对的。
A few weeks later, we got a call from the school.	几个星期后，我们接到学校打来的电话。
One of our daughters had gotten into a spat.	我们的一个女儿与人发生了争执。
And suddenly we were worried, like, do we have a mean girl on our hands?	我们突然开始担心，如果我们有个坏女孩该怎么办？
And we didn't really know what to do, so we called her into my office.	我们但是并不知道要怎么办， 所以我们把她叫到了我的办公室。
The family mission statement was on the wall, and my wife said, "So, anything up there seem to apply?"	家庭使命挂在墙上， 我的妻子说，"那上面有哪个内容合适吗？"
And she kind of looked down the list, and she said, "Bring people together?"	她看了一下列表，说， "团结大家？"
Suddenly we had a way into the conversation.	我们一下子就有了开始的话题。
Another great way to tell your story is to tell your children where they came from.	讲述你的故事的另一个很好的方式 是告诉你的孩子他们从哪里来。
Researchers at Emory gave children a simple "what do you know" test.	艾默理大学的研究员给了孩子们一个简单的 "你知道什么"测试。
Do you know where your grandparents were born?	你知道你的祖父祖母在哪里出生吗？
Do you know where your parents went to high school?	你知道你父母在哪里上的高中吗？
Do you know anybody in your family who had a difficult situation, an illness, and they overcame it?	你知道你家里有没有任何人 有过困难时期，生病了又战胜了病魔？
The children who scored highest on this "do you know" scale had the highest self-esteem and a greater sense they could control their lives.	那些在"知道"榜上得到最高分的孩子们 有最强的自信和更能感觉到他们有能控制自己的生活的能力。
The "do you know" test was the single biggest predictor of emotional health and happiness.	这个"知道"测试是最可以测试 心理健康和幸福的。
As the author of the study told me, children who have a sense of -- they're part of a larger narrative have greater self-confidence.	这个研究的作者告诉我， 这些感觉到他们是更大的故事里的一部分的孩子们 有更强的自信。
So my final plank is, tell your story.	所以我最后一个重点是，讲述你的故事。
Spend time retelling the story of your family's positive moments and how you overcame the negative ones.	花一些时间多讲几次你的家庭愉快的故事 和怎样克服困难时期的故事。
If you give children this happy narrative, you give them the tools to make themselves happier.	如果你给你的孩子开心的讲述， 你就给了他们让自己更开心的工具。
I was a teenager when I first read "Anna Karenina" and its famous opening sentence, "All happy families are alike.	我十几岁的时候第一次读"安妮·卡列尼娜" 和它非常有名的开篇第一句， "幸福的家庭都是相似的。
Each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way."	不幸的家庭各有各的不幸。"
When I first read that, I thought, "That sentence is inane.	当我第一次读它的时候，我想，"这是句疯话。
Of course all happy families aren't alike."	幸福的家庭当然不都是一样的。"
But as I began working on this project, I began changing my mind.	但当我开始做这个项目时， 我开始改变我的想法了。
Recent scholarship has allowed us, for the first time, to identify the building blocks that successful families have.	近期的学术研究让我们第一次， 能够辨别出成功家庭 普遍具备的要素。
I've mentioned just three here today: Adapt all the time, empower the children, tell your story.	我今天只谈到了三点： 随时调整适应，给你的孩子权利，讲述你的故事。
Is it possible, all these years later, to say Tolstoy was right?	这么多年后，可不可能说托尔斯泰是对的？
The answer, I believe, is yes.	答案，我相信，是可以。
When Leo Tolstoy was five years old, his brother Nikolay came to him and said he had engraved the secret to universal happiness on a little green stick, which he had hidden in a ravine on the family's estate in Russia.	当列夫·托尔斯泰五岁大的时候， 他的哥哥尼古拉来到他面前 说他把万能幸福的秘密刻在了 一个小绿棒上面，藏在了他们家族 位于俄罗斯的庄园的山沟里。
If the stick were ever found, all humankind would be happy.	如果那个木棒被找到，全人类都会得到幸福。
Tolstoy became consumed with that stick, but he never found it.	托尔斯泰便一直在寻找这个木棒，但始终没有找到。
In fact, he asked to be buried in that ravine where he thought it was hidden.	甚至，他要求被葬在那个他认为是埋藏地的山沟里。
He still lies there today, covered in a layer of green grass.	他至今仍在那里，被一层又一层的绿草覆盖着。
That story perfectly captures for me the final lesson that I learned: Happiness is not something we find, it's something we make.	这个故事很完美的对我讲述了 我学到的最后一课： 幸福不是我们找到的， 而是我们创造的。
Almost anybody who's looked at well-run organizations has come to pretty much the same conclusion.	基本上所有观察运行的好的企业的人 都会得到差不多一样的结论。
Greatness is not a matter of circumstance.	伟大并不取决于环境。
It's a matter of choice.	而取决于选择。
You don't need some grand plan. You don't need a waterfall.	你不需要什么大型的计划。你不需要瀑布。
You just need to take small steps, accumulate small wins, keep reaching for that green stick.	你只需要迈出小步， 积累小胜利， 坚持接近那个绿木棒。
In the end, this may be the greatest lesson of all.	最后，这可能是最伟大的一堂课。
What's the secret to a happy family? Try.	幸福家庭的秘密是什么？是尝试。
Thirteen trillion dollars in wealth has evaporated over the course of the last two years.	13万亿的财富 在过去的两年间里蒸发殆尽。
We've questioned the future of capitalism.	我们质疑过资本主义的未来。
We've questioned the financial industry.	我们也对金融业产生过怀疑。
We've looked at our government oversight.	我们检视我们的政府的疏忽。
We've questioned where we're going.	我们对未来的方向感到迷茫。
And yet, at the same time, this very well may be a seminal moment in American history, an opportunity for the consumer to actually take control and guide us to a new trajectory in America.	然而，与此同时，危机的到来不仅仅意味着 美国正处在历史上的关键时刻， 对消费者而言，更是一种机遇。 他们能够真正的掌握主动权， 并且带领我们进入一个新的发展轨道。
I'm calling this The Great Unwind.	我们把它称之为一场"大松绑"。
And the idea is a simple, simple idea, which is the fact that the consumer has moved from a state of anxiety to action.	其实这本身是一个非常简单的理念， 它描述了这样一个事实， 即消费者正从过去焦虑不安的状态向付诸行动逐渐发生转变。
Consumers who represent 72 percent of the GDP of America have actually started, just like banks and just like businesses, to de-leverage, to unwind their leverage, in daily life, to remove themselves from the liability and risk that presents itself as we move forward.	占美国国内生产总值72%的消费群体 事实上已经开始行动了， 正如银行和企业 所采取的一系列"去杠杆化"措施， 在日常生活中，消费者们 让自己从负债和风险中解脱出来， 继续前行。
So, to understand this -- and I'm going to stress this -- it's not about the consumer being in retreat.	因此，为了便于理解，我想要强调， 消费者们并没有退缩，
The consumer is empowered.	他们被赋予了权力。
In order to understand this, we're going to step back and look a little bit at what's happened over the course of the last year and a half.	为了更清楚的阐明我的观点，让我们往回走 看看过去的一年半时间里发生了什么。
So, if you've been gone, this is the easy CliffsNotes on what's happened in the economy. Okay?	如果你也同样经历了这一切的话， 我下面将要讲述的便是最简单的摘要。可以吗？
Unemployment up. Housing values down. Equity markets down.	失业率~上升，房产价格~下降，资本市场~猛跌
Commodity prices are like this.	商品价格这样变化。
If you're a mom trying to manage a budget, and oil was 150 dollars a barrel last summer, and it's somewhere between 50 and 70, do you plan vacations? How do you buy?	如果你是你个负责预算的母亲， 去年夏天的汽油价格是每桶150美元， 而现在则是介于50到70美元之间， 你还打算去度假吗？你会怎样买？
What is your strategy in your household?	你的家庭策略是什么？
Will the bailout work? We have national debt, Detroit, currency valuations, healthcare, all these issues facing us.	政府援助会起作用吗？我们面临的问题有国债，底特律， 货币估价，医疗保健等等。
You put them all together, you mix them up in a bouillabaisse, and you have consumer confidence that's basically a ticking time-bomb.	你把他们放在一起，混合成一碗法式鱼肉汤。 另外，你还拥有消费者信心，而它基本就是一个滴答作响的定时炸弹。
In fact, let's go back and look at what caused this crisis, because the consumer, all of us, in our daily lives, actually contributed a large part to the problem.	其实我们应该回头看看是什么导致了这场危机； 因为，在日常生活中，所有消费者 实际上都极大程度上促成了这一问题的产生。
This is something I call the 50-20 paradox.	这就是我称之为 50/20悖论 的东西。
It took us 50 years to reach annual savings ratings of almost 10 percent. 50 years.	我们花费了50年 来达到年储蓄率接近10%的水平。 50年。
Do you know what this was right here?	你知道这个地方是啥时候吗？
This was World War II. Do you know why savings was so high?	这儿是二战期间。你知道为什么储蓄如此高吗？
There was nothing to buy, unless you wanted to buy some rivets. Right?	因为没有任何东西可以买，除非你想买铆钉。对吗？
So, what happened though, over the course of the last 20 years -- we went from a 10 percent savings rate to a negative savings rate.	那么，过去20年发生了什么 使得储蓄率从10%下降到负值？
Because we binged. We bought extra-large cars, supersized everything, we bought remedies for restless leg syndrome.	因为我们大肆享受：我们买超大的汽车， 一切超大型的东西；我们似乎得了坐立不安综合症并为之买单。
All these things together basically created a factor where the consumer sort of drove us headlong into the crisis that we face today.	所有这些加一起，大体上就是 导致消费者进入危机的原因， 我们如此仓促，手足无措。
The personal debt-to-income ratio basically went from 65 percent to 135 percent in the span of about 15 years.	在过去大概15年的区间内， 个人负债与收入比率 大体上从65%增长到135%。
So consumers got overleveraged.	于是消费者们过度杠杆化了，
And of course our banks did as well, as did our federal government.	当然我们的银行和联邦政府也是如此。
This is an absolutely staggering chart.	这是一副十足惊人的图表，
It shows leverage, trended out from 1919 to 2009.	它展示了从1919到2009年间杠杆的变化趋势。
And what you end up seeing is the whole phenomenon of the fact that we are actually stepping forth and basically leveraging future education, future children in our households.	你在最后面看到的是一整个现象， 那就是，我们实际上在举债， 我们在提前透支 未来教育及未来孩子们的花费。
So if you look at this in the context of visualizing the bailout, what you can see is if you stack up dollar bills, first of all, 360,000 dollars is about the size of a five-foot-four guy.	如果你在政府救援背景下想想这个问题， 你将看到的是，如果一个人堆积美元钞票， 首先是360,000美元 -大致相当于一个5.4英寸人的高度
But if you stack it up, you just see this amazing, staggering amount of dollars that have been put into the system to fund and bail us out.	但是，如果将钱堆积起来，你看到的仅仅是 数量惊人的美元被投入系统 以资助和援救我们。
So this is the first 315 billion.	这就是最初的3150亿美元。
But I read this fact the other day, that one trillion seconds equals 32 thousand years, so if you think about that, the context, the casualness with which we talk about trillion-dollar bailout here, and trillion there, we are stacking ourselves up for long-term leverage.	前不久，我看到这样一个事实： 一万亿秒相当于32000年。 你想想这种情形： 我们在多么轻松地谈论金钱，这儿一万亿，那儿一万亿。 我们在堆积一个长期的杠杆。
However, consumers have moved.	但是，消费者开始行动了，
They are taking responsibility.	他们在承担责任。
What we're seeing is an uptake in the savings rate.	我们开到储蓄率在提高
In fact, 11 straight months of savings have happened since the beginning of the crisis.	事实上，自从危机发生以来 已经有连续11个月的储蓄。
We are working our way back up to that 10 percent.	我们正朝着恢复储蓄率到10%的方向前进。
Also, remarkably, in the fourth quarter, spending dropped to its lowest level in 62 years, almost a 3.7 percent decline.	另外值得注意的是 第四季度的花费降到62年来的最低点， 几乎下降了3.7%。
Visa now reports that more people are using debit cards than they're using credit cards.	维萨公司报告说，相比信用卡而言 更多的人在使用借记卡。
So we're starting to pay for things with money that we have.	我们开始用手头的钱买东西，
And we're starting to be much more careful about how we save and how we invest.	我们开始谨小慎微地对待， 存款和投资。
But that's not really the whole story.	但那并不是整个故事，
Because this has also been a dramatic time of transformation.	因为这种转变所花的时间也是相当长的，
And you've got to admit, over the course of the last year and a half, consumers have been doing some pretty weird things.	你不得不承认，在过去一年半中 消费者们做了些十分奇怪的事情，
It's been pretty staggering, what we've lived through.	我们所经历的真的很奇怪。
If you take into account 80 percent of all Americans were born after World War II, this is essentially our Depression.	如果大家考虑到 80%的美国人出生在二战以后， 这就绝对是属于我们的大萧条。
And so, as a result, some crazy things have happened.	同时，一些疯狂的事情发生了。
I'll give you some examples. Lets talk about dentists, vasectomies, guns and shark attacks. Okay?	我会给大家举些例子，比如牙医， 输精管切除书术，枪支和鲨鱼攻击。好吗？
Dentists report molars, you know, people grinding their teeth, coming in and reporting the fact that they've had stress.	牙医报告说人们有磨牙。 磨牙的人去见牙医， 说他们感到有压力。
And so there is an increase in people having to have their fillings replaced.	于是，越来越多的人不得不替换他们补牙所用的材料。
Guns, gun sales, according to the FBI, who does background checks, are up almost 25 percent since January.	负责检查背景的联邦调查局说 七月份以来，持枪数和枪支销售上涨了几乎25%。
Vasectomies are up 48 percent, according to the Cornell institute.	又据康奈尔研究院 输精管切除手术增多了48%。
And lastly, but a very good point, hopefully not related to the former point I just made, which is that shark attacks are at their lowest level from 2003.	最后，很好的一点 希望和我们前面提到的一点没关系 那就是，鲨鱼袭人事件也处于2003年以来的最低水平。
Does anybody know why?	有人知道原因吗？
No one is at the beach. So there is a bright side to everything.	没有人去海滩。所以任何事物都有光明的一面。
But seriously, what we see happening, and the reason I want to stress that the consumer is not in retreat, is that this is a tremendous opportunity for the consumer who drove us into this recession to lead us right back out.	不过严肃点说，正在发生的事情 以及我想强调消费者并未撤退的原因是： 这对消费者而言是一个巨大的机遇。 消费者将我们带入衰退， 但也能借此机遇引导我们走出衰退。
And what I mean by that is that we can move from mindless consumption to mindful consumption. Right?	我的意思是，我们可以从不假思索的消费 变为深思熟虑的消费。对吗？
If you think about the last three decades, the consumer has moved from savvy about marketing in the '90s, to gathering all these amazing social and search tools in this decade, but the one thing that has been holding them back is the ability to discriminate.	如果你想想过去30年， 消费者从90年代的信奉市场知识 变化到近十年的收集各种社会工具和搜索工具。 但是，有一样东西阻挡了他们的前进，那就是判断能力。
By restricting their demand, consumers can actually align their values with their spending, and drive capitalism and business to not just be about more, but be about better.	消费者因限制了自己的需求， 而能让他们的价值取向与消费相结合 并驱动资产主义和商业 到不只更多而是更好的境界。
We're going to explain that right now.	接下来我会解释这一点。
Based on Y&amp;R's BrandAsset Valuator, proprietary tool of VML and Young &amp; Rubicam, we set out to understand what's been happening in the crisis with the consumer marketplace.	根据Y&amp;R的品牌资产评估机构， VML 和 Young &amp; Rubicam的专有工具， 我们开始了解到金融危机 在消费者市场引发的事情。
We found a couple of really interesting things.	我们发现了一些相当有趣的事情。
We're going to go through four value-shifts that we see driving new consumer behaviors, that offer new management principles.	我们研究了4种价值转变， 这些变化引导我们找到新的消费者行为， 也提供了新的管理法则。
The first cultural value shift that we see is this tendency toward something we call liquid life.	第一个文化价值转变是， 生活有种转向所谓液态生活的趋势。
This is the movement from Americans defining their success on having things to having liquidity, because the less excess that you have around you, the more nimble and fleet of foot you are.	美国人对成功的定义由资产的多寡 变为是否拥有液态生活。 因为，一个人周围的过度行为越少， 他的行动速度会越发灵敏。
As a result, déclassé consumption is in.	低调消费也因此流行，
Déclassé consumption is the whole idea that spending money frivolously makes you look a little bit anti-fashion.	低调消费是指盲目的消费 似乎与流行趋势不相符。
The management principle is dollars and cents.	这个管理法则是金钱，
So let's look at some examples of this déclassé consumption that falls out of this value.	那么,先来看看一些低调消费 脱离价值的例子。
First things is we see something must be happening when P. Diddy vows to tone down his bling.	第一件事是，P. Diddy（吹牛老爹）宣称不再穿戴华丽闪亮的服装时， 一定有什么事发生了。
But seriously, we also have this phenomenon on Madison Avenue and in other places, where people are actually walking out of luxury boutiques with ordinary, sort of generic paper bags to hide the brand purchases.	但是严格地说 这种现象也发生麦迪逊大街和别的地方， 人们走在奢侈精品街上， 手里拿着普通无名的纸袋， 里面却放着各种名牌物品。
We see high-end haggling in fashion today.	今天我们看到上流社会的高价议价，
High-end haggling for luxury and real estate.	豪宅和不动产的高价议价。
We also see just a relaxing of ego, and sort of a dismantling of artifice.	我们也只看到一个放松的自我 以及拆穿各种诡计。
This is a story on the yacht club that's all basically blue collar.	这个故事发生在游艇俱乐部， 它的成员基本上都是蓝领阶层，
Blue-collar yacht club, where you can join the yacht club, but you've got to work in the boat yard, as sort of condition of membership.	是的，蓝领游艇俱乐部,你可以参加这个俱乐部， 但成为会员的条件是 你必须在船坞上工作。
We also see the trend toward tourism that's a little bit more low key. Right?	我们也看到未来趋势朝向 低调旅游发展,对吧?
Agritourism, going to vineyards and going to farms.	农业旅游，人们走入葡萄园和农田。
And then we also see this movement forward from dollars and cents.	然后，我们也看到价值观已不再但是关于金钱。
What businesses can do to connect with these new mindsets is really interesting.	企业能联系这些新观念去做什么 是相当有趣的。
A couple things that are kind of cool.	有些事儿非常酷，
One is that Frito-Lay figured out this liquidity thing with their consumer.	其一是，Frito-Lay查觉了 他们顾客的流动性。
They found their consumer had more money at the beginning of the month, less at the end of the month. So what they did is they started to change their packaging.	他们发现消费者在月初有较多的钱， 而月底则较少,因此他们所做的 就是开始改变他们的包装。
Larger packs at the beginning of the month, smaller packaging at the end of the month.	月初销售的包装比较大, 月底产品的包装比较小。
Really interestingly, too, was the San Francisco Giants.	同样有趣的是，旧金山巨人队
They've just instituted dynamic pricing.	他们采用了动态定价，
So it takes into account everything from the pitcher match-ups, to the weather, to the team records, in setting prices for the consumer.	因此,在制定票价时，他们将各种因素考虑进来， 从投手配合到天气 再到球队纪录。
Another quick example of these types of movements is the rise of Zynga.	另一个的例子就是Zynga（开发"开心农场"的游戏厂商） 的快速崛起。
Zynga has risen on the consumer's desire to not want to be locked in to fixed-cost.	Zynga的崛起基于消费者 不愿定期支付固定成本的欲望。
Again, this theme is about variable cost, variable living.	再一次，主题是变动成本和变动生活。
So micropayments have become huge.	因此,小额支付也变成巨大的负担，
And lastly, some people are using Hulu actually as a device to get rid of their cable bill.	最后,一些人使用Hulu 实际上把它当作逃避有线电视账单的设备。
So, really clever ideas there that are kind of being taken ahold and marketers are starting to understand.	因此,真正聪明的想法 似乎开始被市场采用,而商人们也开始能理解。
The second of the four values is this movement toward ethics and fair play.	第二个价值观是 趋向重视道德及公平竞争。
We see that play itself out with empathy and respect.	我们透过道德和尊重监视竞争。
The consumer is demanding it.	消费者需要这样，
And, as a result, businesses must provide not only value, but values.	也因此,企业不只要提供 价值更须提供价值观。
Increasingly, consumers are looking at the culture of the company, looking for their conduct in the marketplace.	渐渐地，在市场中寻找产品时， 消费者开始留意公司文化。
So, what we see with empathy and respect, lots of really hopeful things that have come out of this recession.	因此,我们透过道德与尊重所看到的,很多真实有希望的东西 已经从经济衰退中走出来。
And I'll give you a few examples.	下面是一些例子"
One is the rise toward communities and neighborhoods, and increased emphasis on your neighbors as your support system.	一个是社区和街坊的崛起 和人们更强调邻居是后备支持系统。
Also a wonderful byproduct of sort of a really lousy thing, which has been unemployment, is a rise in volunteerism that's been noted in our country.	此外,在失业清况如此严重的情形下, 一个很好的副产品产生了， 那就是更多人投身历来为美国所重视的志愿工作。
We also see the phenomenon -- some of you may have "boomerang kids" -- these are "boomerang alumni," where universities are actually reconnecting with alumni in helping them with jobs, sharing skills and retraining.	我们也看到这样的一个现象- 你们中的一些可能有"赖家孩子" 这些也是返校校友， 大学实际上会会再联系毕业校友， 以帮助在校生们找工作,分享技能及进行在职训练。
We also talked about character and professionalism.	我们也谈论到人格和专业特质，
We had this miracle on the Hudson in New York City, you know, in January, and suddenly Sully has become a key name on Babycenter.	今年一月时，纽约的Hudson发生了这样的奇迹 突然间Sully这个名字在婴儿中心变得很重要 （sully，玷污名声）
So, from a value and values standpoint, what companies can do is connect in lots of different ways.	那么,从价值及价值观的角度来看， 公司能做的是通过各种方式联系消费者。
Microsoft is doing something wonderful.	微软做了一些很棒的事，
They are actually vowing to retrain two million Americans with I.T. training, using their existing infrastructure to do something good.	他们宣步将对2百万美国人做信息在职训练， 使用既有的设备去做一些好事。
Also a really interesting company is Gore-Tex.	另一个有趣的公司Gore-Tex
Gore-Tex is all about personal accountability of their management and their employees, to the point where they really kind of shun the idea of bosses.	Gore-Tex强调个人责任感， 无论是管理者还是员工。 以至于他们几乎舍弃老板与下属的概念。
But they also talk about the fact that their executives, all of their expense reports are put onto their company intranet for everyone to see.	但他们也谈论到这样一个事实， 他们的执行力和所有费用支出 都会放在公司内部网络供每个员工观看。
Complete transparency.	完全透明化
Think twice before you have that bottle of wine.	三思而后行
The third of the four laws of post-crisis consumerism is about durable living.	后危机消费的第三个法则是 永续生存。
We're seeing on our data that consumers are realizing this is a marathon, not a sprint.	数据显示消费者意识到 这是一个马拉松而非短跑比赛。
They are digging in. And they're looking for ways to extract value out of every purchase that they make.	他们开始认真,每一次购物 他们都有发掘出最大价值。
Witness the fact that Americans are holding on to their cars longer than ever before, 9.4 years on average, in March. A record.	注意这一事实：美国人持有他们汽车 的时间比以前要长。 在今年三月创下历史纪录，平均9.4年
We also see the fact that libraries have become a huge resource for America.	我们也看到图书馆已经变成 美国人一个巨大的信息源。
Did you know that 68 percent of Americans now carry a library card?	你知道现在有68%的美国人 持有图书馆卡吗?
The highest percentage ever in our nation's history.	在我们国家历史最高纪录。
So what you see in this trend is also the accumulation of knowledge.	因此,这种趋势也可看作 知识的累积。
Continuing education is up.	继续学习成为更多人的选择。
Everything is focused on betterment, and training, and development and moving forward.	每件事都强调改善、训练 发展及进步。
We also see a big DIY movement.	我们也看到明显的DIY趋势。
I was fascinated to learn that 30 percent of all homes in America are actually built by owners.	我很高兴了解到那些30% 自己动手建房的美国人，
That includes cottages and the like. But 30 percent.	包括农舍小屋诸如此类的,达到30%
So, people are getting their hands dirty. They are rolling up their sleeves.	这样，人们卷起柚子,弄脏双手，
They want these skills.	学习这些技术。
We see that with the phenomenon of raising backyard hens and chickens and ducks. And when you work out the math, they say it doesn't work, but the principle is there that it's about being sustainable and taking care of yourself.	我们看到他们在后院饲养 母鸡、小鸡和鸭子,当你计算经济成本时， 他们回答那不重要,重点是原则， 原则就是关于持续发展和自给自足。
And then we look at the High Line in New York City, an excellent use of reimagining existing infrastructure for something good, which is a brand new park in New York City.	我们再看看纽约市的High Line长廊式公园 一个很棒的再利用废弃设施 的案例。这也为 纽约市构建了一个崭新的公园。
So, what brands can do, and companies, is pay dividends to consumers, be a brand that lasts, offer transparency, promise you're going to be there beyond today's sale.	因此,品牌和公司能做的是 分红给消费者。 做一个长期品牌， 提供透明度,承诺物超所值。
Perfect example of that is Patagonia.	最佳的例子是Patagonia
Patagonia's Footprint Chronicles basically goes through and tracks every product that they make, and gives you social responsibility, and helps you understand the ethics that are behind the product that they make.	Patagonia的环保足迹记事 基本上追踪每件产品的生产流程， 以给予消费者社会责任 并帮助消费者了解每件产品背后的 社会伦理道德。
Another great example is Fidelity.	另一个很棒的例子是富达证券 Fidelity
Rather than instant cash-back rewards on your credit or debit purchases, this is about 529 rewards for your student education.	他们并不依信用卡或现金卡消费回馈现金， 而是提供529助学奖励金 以作为学生教育补助。
Or the interesting company SunRun.	或另一个有趣的公司SunRun
I love this company. They've created a consumer collective where they put solar panels on households and create a consumer-based utility, where the electricity that they generate is basically pumped back out into the marketplace.	我喜欢这间公司,他们提供一个集合式产品， 给家庭安置太阳能面板， 并创造以消费者为主的公用事业。 他们再将产生的电力 卖给市场。
So, it's a consumer driven co-op.	这就是消费者驱动的互助。
So, the fourth sort of post-crisis consumerism that we see is this movement about return to the fold.	因此，第四种金融危机后的消费主义 是回归信任圈的趋势。
It's incredibly important right now.	这点非常重要。
Trust is not parceled out, as we all know.	我们都知道,信任无法被分配，
It's now about connecting to your communities, connecting to your social networks.	现在信任是关于连接你的小区、 连接你的社会网络。
In my book I talked about the fact that 72 percent of people trust what other people say about a brand or a company, versus 15 percent on advertising.	在我的书中谈论到， 72%的人相信其他人 对品牌和公司的介绍,只有15%的人相信广告。
So, in that respect, cooperative consumerism has really taken off.	因此,从这个角度讲， 互助消费主义已经开始发展，
This is about consumers working together to get what they want out of the marketplace.	消费者一起合作 去得到他们从市场无法得到的东西。
Let's look at a couple of quick examples.	先快速地看几个例子：
The artisanal movement is huge.	手工运动的力量很强大。
Everything about locally derived products and services, supporting your local neighborhoods, whether it's cheeses, wines and other products.	那就是就近获得产品和服务 以支持本地社区， 无论是奶酪、酒还是其他产品。
Also this rise of local currencies.	因此本地货币也出现并发展。
Realizing that it's difficult to get loans in this environment, you're doing business with people you trust, in your local markets.	意识到在这种环境下很难获得融资， 人们开始和那些信赖的人做生意， 在他们熟悉的地方性市场。
So, this rise of this sort of local currency is another really interesting phenomenon.	因此,地区货币的流通 是另外有趣的现象。
And then they did a recent report I thought was fascinating.	然后他们做了一个报告， 这个报告很吸引人。
They actually started, in certain communities in the United States, start to publish people's electricity usage.	事实上，他们已经开始在美国的几个小区行动， 开始公布人们的电力使用。
And what they found out is when that was available for public record, the people's electricity usage in those communities dropped.	他们发现人们见到使用数据后， 这些社区的电力使用量降低。
Then we also look at the idea of cow-pooling, which is the whole phenomenon of consumers organizing together to buy meat from organic farms that they know is safe and controlled in the way that they want it to be controlled.	接下来,再看看合资买牛的构想， 这个现象完全是 消费者自己组织行动， 去那些他们知道安全可控的农场购买肉类； 这样他们总能掌握相关的信息。
And then there is this other really interesting movement that's happened in California, which is about carrot mobs.	还有一个真正有趣的趋势 发生在加洲,是有关于胡萝卜族的。
The traditional thing would be to boycott right?	传统的方法是去联合抵制购买,对吧?
Have a stick? Well why not have a carrot?	采用惩罚的方式?那为什么不用奖励的方式呢?
So these are consumers organizing, pooling their resources to incentify companies to do good.	这些胡萝卜族组织集中他们的资源 去鼓励商家去做好事。
And then we look at what companies can do.	然后让我们来看看企业能做些什么。
This is all the opportunity about being a community organizer.	到处都有机会去成为社群组织者，
You have to realize that you can't fight and control this.	你必须意识到你不能对抗和控制它。
You actually need to organize it.	你实际上需要去组织它。
You need to harness it. You need to give it meaning.	你必须驾驭它,必须赋予它意义。
And there is lots of really interesting examples here that we see.	这里有很多有趣的实际案例 可供我们参考。
First is just the rise of the fact that Zagat's has actually moved out of and diversified from rating restaurants, into actually rating healthcare.	第一个是愈发明显的现象， Zagat的业务实际上已（zagat网站，类似大众点评网） 不仅仅是从多角度评鉴美食餐馆， 他们也开始评价医疗保健。
So what credentials does Zagat's have?	Zagat 到底有什么资质呢?
Well, they have a lot, because it's their network of people. Right?	他们当然有很多.因为他们有很强的人脉网络.对吧?
So that becomes a very powerful force for them to make their brand more elastic.	因此,这变成一股非常强大的力量 促使她们的品牌变得更有张力。
Then you look at the phenomenon of Kogi.	再来看看Kogi现象
This Kogi doesn't exist. It's a moving truck. Right?	这个Kogi并非固定,而是一个流动餐车,对吧?
It's a moving truck through L.A., and the only way you can find it is through Twitter.	它是一个穿梭在洛杉矶的快餐车,而唯一能找到它的方式 就是通过Twitter。
Or you look at Johnson &amp; Johnson's Momversations.	又或者再看看强生集团的Momversations网站，
A phenomenal blog that's been built up.	他们建立了一个感性的博客，
Where J&amp;J basically is tapping into the power of mommy bloggers, allowing them to basically create a forum where they can communicate and they can connect.	娇生集团借此利用 每一个妈妈博主的力量。 妈妈们可以去建立一个论坛， 在那里互相沟通和联系。
And it's also become a very, very valuable sort of advertising revenue for J&amp;J as well.	这俨然是一个非常,非常有效的 营销方式，对强生公司也是如此。
This plus the fact that you've got phenomenal work from CEOs from Ford to Zappos, connecting on Twitter, creating an open environment, allowing their employees to be part of the process, rather than hidden behind walls.	还有， 借用Twitter的连接作用，你可以得到 来自从福特汽车到Zappos的CEO们的优质工作。 这样就创造了一个开放式的环境， 允许员工参与整个过程 而不是躲在幕后。
You see this rising force in sort of total transparency and openness that companies are starting to adopt, all because the consumer is demanding it.	这股崛起的力量似乎也促使 公司开始尝试完全透明性和公开性。 因为消费者希望这样。
So, when we look at this and we step back, what I believe is that the crisis that exists today is definitely real.	当我们看看这点，再退后一步看， 我相信今天发生的危机 是绝对真实的。
It's been tremendously powerful for consumers.	它已经对消费者造成极大的冲击，
But, at the same time, this is also a tremendous opportunity.	但同时,这也是一个绝佳的机会。
And the Chinese character for crisis is actually the same side of the same coin.	"危机"在汉语中 实际上指的是同一件事，
Crisis equals opportunity.	危机就是转机。
What we're seeing with consumers right now is the ability for them to actually lead us forward out of this recession.	我们当前所看到正是， 消费者事实上有能力去 引领我们走出这次经济衰退。
So, we believe that values-driven spending will force capitalism to be better.	因此,我们相信价值驱动消费 会促使资本主义变得更好。
It will drive innovation.	它将驱动创新。
It will make longer-lasting products. It will create better, more intuitive customer service.	将创造更持久耐用的产品。 它将创造更好、更直观的消费者服务。
It will give us the opportunity to connect with companies that share the values that we share.	它将给我们机会去连接公司 互相分享价值。
So, when we look back and step out at this and see the beginning of these trends that we're seeing in our data, we see a very hopeful picture for the future of America.	因此,当我们往后看或跳出来 看看这些数据 所显示的趋势的开始。 我们看到一个非常有希望的远景在美国的未来
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
Of the five senses, vision is the one that I appreciate the most, and it's the one that I can least take for granted.	五感之中， 视觉是我最欣赏的， 也是我最不可熟视无睹的。
I think this is partially due to my father, who was blind.	我认为部分原因归于我的父亲。他是盲人。
It was a fact that he didn't make much of a fuss about, usually.	他通常不把这当多大一回事。
One time in Nova Scotia, when we went to see a total eclipse of the sun -- yeah, same one as in the Carly Simon song, which may or may not refer to James Taylor, Warren Beatty or Mick Jagger; we're not really sure.	有一次，在新斯科舍， 我们去看一场日全食 ─ 没错，就是 Carly Simon 歌里的那一场， 其暗指的可能是 James Taylor，Warren Beatty，或者 Mick Jagger；我们不确定。
They handed out these dark plastic viewers that allowed us to look directly at the sun without damaging our eyes.	人们发放那些暗塑料观景器， 让我们能直视太阳， 而又不会伤害眼睛。
But Dad got really scared: he didn't want us doing that.	但爸爸很害怕： 他不想让我们那么做。
He wanted us instead to use these cheap cardboard viewers so that there was no chance at all that our eyes would be damaged.	他想让我们用廉价的硬纸皮观景器， 那样我们的眼睛就决不可能受到伤害。
I thought this was a little strange at the time.	我当时觉得有些奇怪。
What I didn't know at the time was that my father had actually been born with perfect eyesight.	我当时不知道的是： 我父亲其实出生时视力完全正常。
When he and his sister Martha were just very little, their mom took them out to see a total eclipse -- or actually, a solar eclipse -- and not long after that, both of them started losing their eyesight.	当他和他妹妹还很小的时候， 他们的母亲带他们去看一场全食， 一场日食。 之后不久， 他们两人开始丧失视力。
Decades later, it turned out that the source of their blindness was most likely some sort of bacterial infection.	几十年后发现， 他们致盲的原因 很可能是某种细菌感染。
As near as we can tell, it had nothing whatsoever to do with that solar eclipse, but by then my grandmother had already gone to her grave thinking it was her fault.	据我们所知， 和那场日食根本毫无瓜葛。 但是那时，我祖母已经满怀内疚地 去世了。
So, Dad graduated Harvard in 1946, married my mom, and bought a house in Lexington, Massachusetts, where the first shots were fired against the British in 1775, although we didn't actually hit any of them until Concord.	爸爸在1946年从哈佛毕业， 娶了我妈妈， 买了一套房子，在麻省莱克星顿镇， 也就是1775年对英国打响第一枪的地方， 虽然我们直到康科德镇才真正打中他们。
He got a job working for Raytheon, designing guidance systems, which was part of the Route 128 high-tech axis in those days -- so the equivalent of Silicone Valley in the '70s.	他在 Raytheon 找了一份工作， 设计导航系统， Raytheon 是当年128号公路高科技轴心区的一部分 ─ 相当于70年代的硅谷。
Dad wasn't a real militaristic kind of guy; he just really felt bad that he wasn't able to fight in World War II on account of his handicap, although they did let him get through the several-hour-long army physical exam before they got to the very last test, which was for vision.	爸爸不是个很有军人作风的人； 他只是对自己因身体缺陷而没能参加二战 感到不快。 尽管他们的确让他一路通过了 长达数小时之久的军队体检， 直到最后一项 测视力。
So, Dad started racking up all of these patents and gaining a reputation as a blind genius, rocket scientist, inventor.	于是，爸爸开始拿下一个又一个专利， 获得了盲人天才、导弹科学家、和发明家的美称。
But to us he was just Dad, and our home life was pretty normal.	但对于我们，他只是爸爸。 我们的家庭生活十分平常。
As a kid, I watched a lot of television and had lots of nerdy hobbies like mineralogy and microbiology and the space program and a little bit of politics.	小时候，我看很多电视， 还有许多古怪的爱好， 比如说矿物学、微生物学、宇宙计划， 还有少许政治学。
I played a lot of chess.	我常常下棋。
But at the age of 14, a friend of mine got me interested in comic books, and I decided that was what I wanted to do for a living.	但14岁时， 我的一个朋友让我对漫画书着迷了， 我决定那就是我以后谋生的行业。
So, here's my dad: he's a scientist, he's an engineer and he's a military contractor.	所以说，这是我爸爸： 他是一名科学家，一名工程师，一名军事承包商。
So, he has four kids, right?	他有四个孩子。
One grows up to become a computer scientist, one grows up to join the Navy, one grows up to become an engineer, and then there's me: the comic book artist.	一个长大成为了电脑科学家， 一个长大加入了海军， 一个长大成为了工程师， 然后就是我： 漫画家。
Which, incidentally, makes me the opposite of Dean Kamen, because I'm a comic book artist, son of an inventor, and he's an inventor, son of a comic book artist.	这使我无意中成为了 Dean Kamen 的反面， 因为我是一名漫画家，一个发明家的儿子； 而他是一个发明家，一名漫画家的儿子。
Right, it's true.	没错，是真的。
The funny thing is, Dad had a lot of faith in me.	有趣的是，爸爸对我很有信心。
He had faith in my abilities as a cartoonist, even though he had no direct evidence that I was any good whatsoever: everything he saw was just a blur.	他相信我作为漫画家的能力， 尽管他无法直接取证我的水平到底如何： 他看到的一切都是朦胧的。
Now, this gives a real meaning to the term "blind faith," which doesn't have the same negative connotation for me that it does for other people.	这给"盲目信仰"提供了一个名符其实的定义， 对我而言，这个词并不像对他人一样带有负面情感。
Now, faith in things which cannot be seen, which cannot be proved, is not the sort of faith that I've ever really related to all that much.	对既看不到，又证明不了的事情的信仰， 并不是我真正欣赏的那种信仰。
I tend to like science, where what we see and can ascertain are the foundation of what we know.	我更喜爱科学， 将我们看到的 和我们能确定的，作为我们知识的基础。
But there's a middle ground, too.	但科学也有灰色地带。
A middle ground tread by people like poor old Charles Babbage, and his steam-driven computers that were never built.	像可怜的老 Charles Babbage 这样的人就行走在这灰色地带之中， 还有他那从未做好的蒸汽电脑。
Nobody really understood what it was that he had in mind, except for Ada Lovelace, and he went to his grave trying to pursue that dream.	没有人真正明白他脑海里的概念， 除了 Ada Lovelace， 而他直到入土前都一直在追寻那个梦想。
Vannevar Bush with his Memex -- this idea of all of human knowledge at your fingertips -- he had this vision.	Vannevar Bush 和他的 Memex ─ 一个让全人类的知识都在一指之遥的梦想 ─ 他一直坚信不疑。
And I think a lot of people in his day probably thought he was a bit of a kook.	我想当时许多人 或许认为他是一个疯子。
And, yeah, we can look back in retrospect and say, yeah, ha-ha, you know -- it's all microfilm. But that's -- that's not the point. He understood the shape of the future.	或许我们现在看来，会说： "耶，哈哈，你看，不就是微型胶片吗。"但那不是关键。 他明白未来是什么样子的。
So did J.C.R. Licklider and his notions for computer-human interaction.	J.C.R. Likider 和他的人机互动概念也是如此。
Same thing: he understood the shape of the future, even though it was something that would only be implemented by people much later.	同样地：他明白未来是什么样子的， 即使那仅仅是 多年之后人们才能做出的东西。
Or Paul Baran, and his vision for packet switching.	还有 Paul Barron，以及他对于包交换的先见之明。
Hardly anybody listened to him in his day.	同一时代里几乎没有人理睬他。
Or even the people who actually pulled it off, the people at Bolt, Beranek and Newman in Boston, who just would sketch out these structures of what would eventually become a worldwide network, and sketching things on the back of napkins and on note papers and arguing over dinner at Howard Johnson's -- on Route 128 in Lexington, Massachusetts, just two miles from where I was studying the Queen's Gambit Deferred and listening to Gladys Knight &amp; the Pips singing "Midnight Train to Georgia," while -- -- in my dad's big easy chair, you know?	甚至是真正将其实现的人们， 波士顿的 Bolt Beranek and Newman 公司的人们， 他们将这最终连接全球的网络 的结构描绘出来， 描绘在纸巾背面和笔记本上， 在麻省莱克星顿的 Howard Johnson 旅店 的晚餐上争论不休 ─ 离我学习"后翼弃兵"以及 听 Gladys Knight &amp; the Pips 唱 "Midnight Train to Georgia" 的地方仅两英里之遥 ─ ─ 在我爸爸的摇椅上。
So, three types of vision, right?	有三种看事物的方式。
Vision based on what one cannot see: the vision of that unseen and unknowable.	一种着眼于人们看不到的东西： 着眼于不可见和不可知的事物。
The vision of that which has already been proven or can be ascertained.	一种着眼于已经被证明或可确定的事物。
And this third kind of vision, of something which can be, which may be, based on knowledge, but is as yet unproven.	还有第三种 着眼于可能的事物， 根据现有知识来说 有可能，但尚未证明的事物。
Now, we've seen a lot of examples of people who are pursuing that sort of vision in science, but I think it's also true in the arts, it's true in politics, it's even true in personal endeavors.	我们知道许多在科学领域中追寻那样的事物的人， 但我认为在艺术和政治中，也同样大有人在。 甚至在个人奋斗历程中。
What it comes down to, really, is four basic principles: learn from everyone, follow no one, watch for patterns, and work like hell.	归根结底，四条基本原则： 向所有人学习， 不盲从任何人， 注意观察模式， 和卖力工作。
I think these are the four principles that go into this.	我认为这四条原则是关键。
And it's that third one, especially, where visions of the future begin to manifest themselves.	尤其是第三条， 对未来的展望 开始自我实现。
What's interesting is that this particular way of looking at the world, is, I think, only one of four different ways that manifest themselves in different fields of endeavor.	有趣的是，这种看世界的方式， 我认为，是四种方式中唯一一种 在不同的奋斗领域中能自我实现的。
In comics, I know that it results in sort of a formalist attitude towards trying to understand how it works.	在漫画界，我知道 它促成了一种严谨的态度， 引导我们尝试明白它的原理。
Then there's another, more classical, attitude which embraces beauty and craft.	然后，还有一种更古典的态度， 囊括美和工艺。
Another one which believes in the pure transparency of content.	还有一种相信内容的纯透明性。
And then another which emphasizes the authenticity of human experience -- and honesty, and rawness.	还有一种 强调原汁原味的人文体验， 强调诚实和本性。
These are four very different ways of looking at the world. I even gave them names.	这是看待世界的四种迥异方式。我还给它们命了名。
The classicist, the animist, and formalist and iconoclast.	古典主义者，泛灵主义者，形式主义者，和标志主义者。
Interestingly, it seemed to correspond more or less to Jung's four subdivisions of human thought.	有趣的是，其恰好和 荣格的四类人类思维相吻合。
And they reflect a dichotomy of art and delight on left and the right; tradition and revolution on the top and the bottom.	他们反映了一种二分法：艺术在左， 喜悦在右； 传统在上，革新在下。
And if you go on the diagonal, you get content and form -- and then beauty and truth.	在对角线，则是内容和形式， 以及美与真实。
And it probably applies just as much to music and to movies and to fine art, which has nothing whatsoever to do with vision at all, or for that matter, nothing to do with our conference theme of "Inspired by Nature" -- except to the extent of the fable of the frog who gives the ride to the scorpion on his back to get across the river because the scorpion promises not to sting him, but then the scorpion does sting him anyway and they both die, but not before the frog asks him why and the scorpion says, "Because it's my nature" -- in that sense, yes.	这同样可以被运用在 音乐、电影、和高雅艺术上， 它们和视觉之间并无关系， 或者说，和我们这次的"来于自然的灵感"的主题 毫无关系； 除了那个关于青蛙的寓言： 青蛙让蝎子坐在它背上渡河， 条件是蝎子承诺不蛰它， 但蝎子最后还是蛰了它，结果它们都淹死了， 在临死之前，青蛙问为什么，蝎子说： "因为这是我的自然天性" ── 从这个意义上来说，有关系。
So -- so this was my nature. The thing was, I saw that the route that I took to discovering this focus in my work and who I was, I saw it as just this road to discovery.	因此， 这就是我的天性。我曾回顾 我追寻我工作的 这个重心的历程， 以及曾经的我， 我当时认为，那只是一条通往探索的道路。
Actually, it was just me embracing my nature, which means that I didn't actually fall that far from the tree after all.	事实上，我只是在拥抱我的天性， 也就是说 我其实离我父亲的期望并不算远。
So what does a "scientific mind" do in the arts?	那么，在艺术中， "科学思维"有何作用呢？
Well, I started making comics, but I also started trying to understand them, almost immediately.	嗯…当我开始画漫画时， 我也几乎同时开始了解漫画。
And one of the most important things about comics, I discovered, was that comics are a visual medium, but they try to embrace all of the senses within it.	我发现，关于漫画最重要的事情之一， 就是：漫画是一种视觉媒介， 但它也尝试将其它感官囊括其中。
So, the different elements of comics, like pictures and words, and the different symbols and everything in between that comics presents are all funneled through the single conduit of vision.	因此，漫画的不同元素，比如说图像和文字， 和不同的符号，以及两者间种种 漫画表现的东西， 都通过视觉这一条途径涉入。
So you have things like resemblance, where something which resembles the physical world can be abstracted in a couple of different directions: abstracted from resemblance, but still retaining the complete meaning, or abstracted away from both resemblance and meaning towards the picture plan.	因此，你就有了表相， 也就是说代表现实世界的事物， 可以被不同的方式抽象化： 将表相抽象化， 但仍保留完全的含义， 或者将表相和含义两者都抽象化，趋于图形化。
Put all these three together, and you have a nice little map of the entire boundary of visual iconography which comics can embrace.	将这三者放在一起，你就有了这一幅有趣的小图， 表现了漫画所能表现的视觉符号 的整个领域。
And if you move to the right you also get language, because that's abstracting even further from resemblance, but still maintaining meaning.	如果你再往右移，就是语言， 因为其将表相进一步抽象化， 但仍旧保留含义。
Vision is called upon to represent sound and to understand the common properties of those two and their common heritage, as well.	视觉被用来重现声音 以明白这两者，以及他们的共同来源 之间的共性。
Also, to try to represent the texture of sound to capture its essential character through visuals.	也用来重现声音的质感； 用视觉捕捉其关键的特性。
And there's also a balance between the visible and the invisible in comics.	漫画中还有可见和不可见事物 的平衡。
Comics is a kind of call and response in which the artist gives you something to see within the panels, and then gives you something to imagine between the panels.	漫画是一种呼应： 漫画家让你在格子里看到 一些东西， 然后让你在格子之间想象另一些东西。
Also, another sense which comics' vision represents, and that's time.	漫画视觉还表现了 另一种感觉：时间感。
Sequence is a very important aspect of comics.	序列是漫画中重要的一个方面。
Comics presents a kind of temporal map.	漫画表现了一种时间图序。
And this temporal map was something that energizes modern comics, but I was wondering if perhaps it also energizes other sorts of forms, and I found some in history.	这时间图序使得现代漫画充满了活力， 但我猜想它可能也使得 别的艺术形式充满活力， 我在历史中找到了一些。
And you can see this same principle operating in these ancient versions of the same idea.	你能看到同样的原则在这些 古老的版本中支配着相同的主意。
What's happening is, the art form is colliding with the given technology, whether it's paint on stone, like the Tomb of the Scribe in ancient Egypt, or a bas-relief sculpture rising up a stone column, or a 200-foot-long embroidery, or painted deerskin and tree bark running across 88 accordion-folded pages.	事实上，艺术形式随着科技条件 而转变： 在古埃及的墓穴碑文上，它被画在石头上； 在石柱的浮雕上； 在200英尺长的刺绣上； 在88折长的 鹿皮和树皮画上。
What's interesting is, once you hit print -- and this is from 1450, by the way -- all of the artifacts of modern comics start to present themselves: rectilinear panel arrangements, simple line drawings without tone and a left-to-right reading sequence.	有趣的是，当进入印刷时代后 ── 顺带一提，这来自1450年 ── 所有现代漫画的元素一目了然： 直线性格子排列， 简单线条描绘，无色调， 还有由左至右的阅读顺序。
And within 100 years, you already start to see word balloons and captions, and it's really just a hop, skip and a jump from here to here.	接下来100年里， 你已经开始看到对话泡泡和图片说明， 事实上从这到这真的几小步而已。
So I wrote a book about this in '93, but as I was finishing the book, I had to do a little bit of typesetting, and I was tired of going to my local copy shop to do it, so I bought a computer.	于是，我在1993年写了一本相关的书， 但当我快写完时， 我要做一些排版， 因为我厌倦了跑复印店， 所以我买了一台电脑。
And it was just a little thing -- it wasn't good for much except text entry -- but my father had told me about Moore's Law, about Moore's Law back in the '70s, and I knew what was coming.	那是电脑还很落后，除了文字输入之外用处不大。 但我父亲在70年代曾告诉我摩尔定理， 因此我知道将要到来的是什么。
And so, I kept my eyes peeled to see if the sort of changes that happened when we went from pre-print comics to print comics would happen when we went beyond, to post-print comics.	于是，我拭目以待， 看看当我们由前印刷时代漫画， 到印刷时代漫画，再到后印刷时代漫画时 会发生什么。
So, one of the first things that were proposed was that we could mix the visuals of comics with the sound, motion and interactivity of the CD-ROMs that were being made in those days.	最先猜想的事情之一， 是我们能够将漫画的视觉因素 与声音、动态、和当时生产的 CD-ROM 的互动性相结合。
This was even before the Web.	这甚至在互联网时代之前。
And one of the first things they did was, they tried to take the comics page as-is and transplant it to monitors, which was a classic McLuhanesque mistake of appropriating the shape of the previous technology as the content of the new technology.	他们最先做的事情之一， 是尝试将漫画原封不动地 搬到显示屏上。 这是一个典型的麦克卢恩式错误： 将上一代科技的形式作为 新一代科技的内容
And so, what they would do is, they'd have these comic pages that resemble print comics pages, and they would introduce all this sound and motion.	因此，他们做的是 采用印刷体的漫画页面 并加入声音和动态。
The problem was, that if you go with this idea -- this basic idea that space equals time in comics -- what happens is that when you introduce sound and motion, which are temporal phenomena that can only be represented through time, then they break with that continuity of presentation.	问题在于，如果你这么做 ── 这基本的空间等于时间的观念 ── 当你加入声音和动态时， 它们本身就是只能通过时间表现的现象， 结果它们会打断表现的连续性。
Interactivity was another thing.	互动性是另一个问题。
There were hypertext comics.	超文本漫画问世了。
But the thing about hypertext is that everything in hypertext is either here, not here or connected to here; it's profoundly non-spatial.	但超文本的问题 在于超文本中的一切只能是在这，不在这，或者链接到这 ── 非常地没有空间性。
The distance from Abraham Lincoln to a Lincoln penny, the Penny Marshall to the Marshall Plan to "Plan 9" to nine lives: it's all the same.	从阿伯拉罕·林肯到林肯硬币， 从 潘尼·马歇尔 到马歇尔计划 到"九号计划"到九条命： 都是一样的。
And -- but in comics, in comics, every aspect of the work, every element of the work has a spatial relationship to every other element at all times.	但在漫画中， 作品的每个方面，每个元素， 都总和其它的每个元素有着一种空间关系。
So the question was: was there any way to preserve that spatial relationship while still taking advantage of all of the things that digital had to offer us?	问题在于： 能不能保留那种空间关系， 同时又能利用数据时代 提供给我们的优势？
And I found my personal answer for this in those ancient comics that I was showing you.	我在之前的古代漫画中 找到了我个人的答案。
Each of them has a single unbroken reading line, whether it's going zigzag across the walls or spiraling up a column or just straight left to right, or even going in a backwards zigzag across those 88 accordion-folded pages.	它们每一个都有一条不间断的阅读线， 无论是在墙上迂回， 或是沿圆柱回旋而上， 或者简单地由左至右，或者甚至是在 88折的页面上反向迂回。
The same thing is happening, and that is that the basic idea that as you move through space you move through time is being carried out without any compromise, but there were compromises when print hit.	同样的事情发生了，那就是当你在空间上移动时， 你也在时间上移动 ── 这个概念被圆满地实现了。 但在印刷时代并非如此。
Adjacent spaces were no longer adjacent moments, so the basic idea of comics was being broken again and again and again and again.	相邻的空间并不代表相邻的时刻， 于是漫画的基本概念被打断了，一次又一次 一次又一次
And I thought, O.K., well, if that's true, is there any way, when we go beyond today's print, to somehow bring that back?	我想：好吧， 既然如此，是不是有办法， 当我们超越现今的印刷时代， 将那种概念寻回？
Now, the monitor is just as limited as the page, technically, right?	现在，显示屏， 技术上来说，就和页面一样有限，对吧？
It's a different shape, but other than that it's the same basic limitation.	它的形状不同，但除此之外， 它有同样的基本局限。
But that's only if you look at the monitor as a page, but not if you look at the monitor as a window.	但只有当你将显示屏看作页面时才是如此， 如果你将显示屏看作一扇窗口就不同了。
And that's what I proposed: that perhaps we could create these comics on an infinite canvas: along the X axis and the Y axis and staircases.	我的提议就是：也许我们能在一幅无限的画布上 创作这些漫画： 沿X轴，Y轴，以及阶梯递进。
We could do circular narratives that were literally circular.	我们能做出名符其实的循环故事。
We could do a turn in a story that was literally a turn.	我们能在故事中做出名符其实的转折。
Parallel narratives could be literally parallel.	平行故事可以是名符其实地平行的。
X, Y and also Z.	X，Y，和Z。
So I had all these notions. This was back in the late '90s, and other people in my business thought I was pretty crazy, but a lot of people then went on and actually did it.	我的这些看法，成型于90年代后期， 我公司里的其他人认为我是疯子， 但之后很多人真的这么做了。
I'm going to show you a couple now.	我现在向你们展示一些。
This was an early collage comic by a fellow named Jason Lex.	这是一个叫 Jason Lex 的人画的早期拼贴漫画。
And notice what's going on here.	注意这里。
What I'm searching for is a durable mutation -- that's what all of us are searching for.	我追寻的是一个可持续的转变 ── 那也是我们所有人追寻的。
As media head into this new era, we are looking for mutations that are durable, that have some sort of staying power.	当媒体进入一个新时代时， 我们开始寻找可持续的转变， 一种最终有能力持续下来的转变。
Now, we're taking this basic idea of presenting comics in a visual medium, and then we're carrying it through all the way from beginning to end.	我们在谈用视觉媒介展现漫画这一基本概念， 然后我们从头到尾将它看下来。
That's that entire comic you just saw is up on the screen right now.	现在屏幕上显示的是 你刚刚看到的整篇漫画。
But even though we're only experiencing it one piece at a time, that's just where the technology is right now.	但即使我们现在只能一部分一部分地看， 那也只是因为当今的科技水平。
As the technology evolves, as you get full immersive displays and whatnot, this sort of thing will only grow.	当科技进步， 当有了全面沉浸显示之类后， 这样的东西会愈演愈烈。
It will adapt. It will adapt to its environment: it's a durable mutation.	它会适应。 它会适应它的环境： 它是一种可持续的转变。
Here's another one I'll show you. This is by Drew Weing; this is called, "Pup Contemplates the Heat Death of the Universe."	接下来一个，Drew Weing 画的 叫做： 《泊普深思宇宙的热寂》。
See what's going on here as we draw these stories on an infinite canvas is you're creating a more pure expression of what this medium is all about.	看看这里 当我们在一幅无限的画布上画出这些故事时， 你在创造一种对于媒介的本质 更纯粹的体验。
We'll go by this a little quickly -- you get the idea.	我们快进一下，你知道大概意思了。
I just want to get to the last panel.	我想给你们看最后一格。
There we go.	来了。
Just one more.	最后一篇。
Talk about your infinite canvas.	关于无限的画布。
It's by a guy named Daniel Merlin Goodbrey in Britain.	这是一个名叫 Daniel Merlin Goodbrey 的英国人画的。
Why is this important?	这为什么重要？
I think this is important because media, all media, provide us a window back into our world.	我认为媒介使其尤为重要， 所有媒介 给我们一个通往我们世界的窗口。
Now, it could be that motion pictures -- and eventually, virtual reality, or something equivalent to it -- some sort of immersive display, is going to provide us with our most efficient escape from the world that we're in.	这媒介可以是电影 ── 以及最终，虚拟现实之类的东西 ── 一种沉浸式显示， 给我们最高效地逃避现实世界的方式。
That's why most people turn to storytelling, is to escape.	这就是为什么大多数人喜欢故事，为了逃避。
But media provides us with a window back into the world that we live in.	但媒介也给了我们一扇窗口 通往我们生活的世界。
And when media evolve so that the identity of the media becomes increasingly unique.	当媒介转变， 媒介的性质变得越来越独特。
Because what you're looking at is, you're looking at comics cubed: you're looking at comics that are more comics-like than they've ever been before.	因为你现在看到的，是多次元的漫画： 你看到的是比之前的一切都更为漫画化的漫画。
When that happens, you provide people with multiple ways of re-entering the world through different windows, and when you do that, it allows them to triangulate the world that they live in and see its shape.	它们给人们提供了从不同的窗口 重新进入世界的多种方式。 同时，它还使人们三分他们生活的世界， 看清它的形状。
And that's why I think this is important.	这就是我认为这个话题很重要
One of many reasons, but I've got to go now.	的原因之一。但我该就此打住了。
Thank you for having me.	谢谢你们。
So, basically we have public leaders, public officials who are out of control; they are writing bills that are unintelligible, and out of these bills are going to come maybe 40,000 pages of regulations, total complexity, which has a dramatically negative impact on our life.	所以，总的来说我们有些领导人、 政府官员办事出格。 他们写的是无法解读的议案。 从这些议案将会产生出 约40,000页的条文，非常复杂， 其对我们的生活将产生极为不利的影响。
If you're a veteran coming back from Iraq or Vietnam you face a blizzard of paperwork to get your benefits; if you're trying to get a small business loan, you face a blizzard of paperwork.	如果你是从伊拉克或是越南战场回来的老兵， 想得到你的救济金，你得做一大堆棘手的文书工作， 如果你想获得一小笔商业贷款， 你也会面临一大堆棘手的文书工作。
What are we going to do about it? I define simplicity as a means to achieving clarity, transparency and empathy, building humanity into communications.	对此，我们应该如何去做？我将简单化定义为 一种能达到清晰、 透明和共鸣， 使交流人性化的一种方法。
I've been simplifying things for 30 years.	30年来我一直致力于事物的简化。
I come out of the advertising and design business.	我是做广告和设计的。
My focus is understanding you people, and how you interact with the government to get your benefits, how you interact with corporations to decide whom you're going to do business with, and how you view brands.	我的关注点是了解大众， 了解你们如何与政府打交道， 去得到你们应得的利益， 了解你们如何与公司打交道而决定你们要与谁去做生意， 以及了解你们如何看待品牌。
So, very quickly, when President Obama said, "I don't see why we can't have a one-page, plain English consumer credit agreement."	所以，当奥巴马总统说 "我不明白为什么我们不能有 一份一页的简单英语消费信贷协议"时
So, I locked myself in a room, figured out the content, organized the document, and wrote it in plain English.	我把自己关在一个房间里 很快想出了这样一个内容， 制定了这样一个文件，并且是用简单英语写的。
I've had this checked by the two top consumer credit lawyers in the country.	我让国内两个顶级 消费信贷律师对其进行了审核。
This is a real thing.	这是件真事。
Now, I went one step further and said, "Why do we have to stick with the stodgy lawyers and just have a paper document? Let's go online."	现在我又进了一步， "为什么我们只能有一份纸质文件 并且非要依附于那些墨守成规的律师呢？让我们上网去解决"。
And many people might need help in computation.	许多人 可能在计算上需要帮助。
Working with the Harvard Business School, you'll see this example when you talk about minimum payment: If you spent 62 dollars for a meal, the longer you take to pay out that loan, you see, over a period of time using the minimum payment it's 99 dollars and 17 cents.	与哈佛商学院合作时， 我们有一个关于最低还款额的案例。 你一顿饭花了62美元， 如果你采用最低还款额延期还款的作法， 过了一段时间， 则需还款99美元17美分。
How about that? Do you think your bank is going to show that to people?	你觉得怎么样？你认为银行会向人们告知吗？
But it's going to work. It's more effective than just computational aids.	但它就是这样运作的。它比仅仅计算 货款时间更有效。
And what about terms like "over the limit"?	你如何理解有些词汇 例如超过限度？
Perhaps a stealth thing.	也许这是一件隐匿的事情。
Define it in context. Tell people what it means.	通过上下文来定义它，告诉人们它是什么意思。
When you put it in plain English, you almost force the institution to give the people a way, a default out of that, and not put themselves at risk.	在你使用简单英语表述时， 你实际上就迫使这家机构 使人们了解如何去规避风险， 而不是把自己置于风险之中。
Plain English is about changing the content.	简单英语也就是 改变内容。
And one of the things I'm most proud of is this agreement for IBM.	我很骄傲的一件事 是我为IBM制作的这份协议。
It's a grid, it's a calendar.	它以简单的网格形式，是一个日历。
At such and such a date, IBM has responsibilities, you have responsibilities.	在这个日期，IBM承担责任， 你承担责任。
Received very favorably by business.	这个作法在商务领域被欣然接受了。
And there is some good news to report today.	今天我有好消息要讲。
Each year, one in 10 taxpayers receives a notice from the IRS.	每年每10个纳税人中有一个 会收到美国国税局通知。
There are 200 million letters that go out.	那就是要发出2亿封信。
Running through this typical letter that they had, I ran it through my simplicity lab, it's pretty unintelligible.	我处理了一部分典型信件， 我是在我的简单化实验室进行的， 结果是它们很让人费解。
All the parts of the document in red are not intelligible.	文件中所有标红的部分都让人费解。
We looked at doing over 1,000 letters that cover 70 percent of their transactions in plain English.	我们又看了1000多封以简单英语写的信， 它们涵盖了70%的业务。
They have been tested in the laboratory.	这些信件在我的实验室进行了测试。
When I run it through my lab, this heat-mapping shows everything is intelligible.	当我在我的实验室测试时， 热点图显示每一件事 都是简单易懂的。
And the IRS has introduced the program.	国税局已经引进了这个程序。
There are a couple of things going on right now that I want to bring to your attention.	（鼓掌） 我想让你们注意 现在正在做的一些事情。
There is a lot of discussion now about a consumer financial protection agency, how to mandate simplicity.	现在有许多讨论 是关于消费金融保护署的， 如何使其工作程序简单化。
We see all this complexity.	我们都看到它的复杂性。
It's incumbent upon us, and this organization, I believe, to make clarity, transparency and empathy a national priority.	我相信我们 和他们都有义不容辞的责任， 使国家重点项目清晰、透明 和与大众有共鸣感。
There is no way that we should allow government to communicate the way they communicate.	我们无法再允许政府 按照他们的表达方式进行表达，
There is no way we should do business with companies that have agreements with stealth provisions and that are unintelligible.	我们无法再与协议中 带有隐匿、晦涩难懂条款的公司 做生意。
So, how are we going to change the world?	那么，我们如何去改变世界？
Make clarity, transparency and simplicity a national priority.	那就是使国家重点项目清晰、透明并且简单化。
I thank you.	谢谢大家。
	（鼓掌）
Well, Arthur C. Clarke, a famous science fiction writer from the 1950s, said that, "We overestimate technology in the short term, and we underestimate it in the long term."	亚瑟·查理斯·克拉克， 是上个世纪五十年代的一位著名科幻小说作家， 他曾说："从短期来看，我们高估了科技； 而从长远来看，我们又低估了科技。"
And I think that's some of the fear that we see about jobs disappearing from artificial intelligence and robots.	我认为我们担心工作会消失的部分焦虑 来自对人工智能和机器人的恐惧。
That we're overestimating the technology in the short term.	可以说，我们在短时间内正在高估科技。
But I am worried whether we're going to get the technology we need in the long term.	不过我担心的是，而从长远来看，我们能不能获得所需要的科技。
Because the demographics are really going to leave us with lots of jobs that need doing and that we, our society, is going to have to be built on the shoulders of steel of robots in the future.	因为人口结构的改变真的会留给我们一大堆的工作去做。 我们将不得不依靠机器人的"钢铁臂膀"去建造我们未来的社会。
So I'm scared we won't have enough robots.	所以我担心未来会没有足够的机器人。
But fear of losing jobs to technology has been around for a long time.	但是担心因科技而丢掉工作的恐惧为时已久。
Back in 1957, there was a Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn movie.	早在1957年，有一部由史宾塞·屈赛和凯瑟琳·赫本主演的电影《电脑风云》。
So you know how it ended up, Spencer Tracy brought a computer, a mainframe computer of 1957, in to help the librarians.	你们一定知道结局如何， 史宾塞·屈赛买了一台电脑，一台1957年的大型电脑， 用来帮助图书管理员。
The librarians in the company would do things like answer for the executives, "What are the names of Santa's reindeer?"	那家公司的图书管理员的工作是回答高管们的问题： "圣诞老人的驯鹿叫什么名字呀？"
And they would look that up.	然后他们会去查一查。
And this mainframe computer was going to help them with that job.	这台大型电脑会帮他们干那样的活儿。
Well of course a mainframe computer in 1957 wasn't much use for that job.	当然了，1957年的一台大型电脑根本干不了那样的活儿。
The librarians were afraid their jobs were going to disappear.	但是图书管理员们还是担心会丢掉他们的工作。
But that's not what happened in fact.	其实根本没有担心的必要。
The number of jobs for librarians increased for a long time after 1957.	1957年后很长的一段时间里，图书管理员的工作数量有所提高。
It wasn't until the Internet came into play, the web came into play and search engines came into play that the need for librarians went down.	直到互联网、 网站和各种搜索引擎走进人们的生活， 对图书管理员的需求才开始减少。
And I think everyone from 1957 totally underestimated the level of technology we would all carry around in our hands and in our pockets today.	我认为1957年的每一个人都彻底低估了 我们今天的科技水平。比如掌上科技，
And we can just ask: "What are the names of Santa's reindeer?" and be told instantly -- or anything else we want to ask.	我们今天可以对着手机说："圣诞老人的驯鹿叫什么名字？"马上就能得到答案…… 问什么都行。
By the way, the wages for librarians went up faster than the wages for other jobs in the U.S. over that same time period, because librarians became partners of computers.	顺便说一下，图书管理员们的工资涨得 比美国同期其他工作的工资要快， 因为图书管理员成了电脑们的搭档。
Computers became tools, and they got more tools that they could use and become more effective during that time.	电脑成了工具，图书管理员们有了更多可用工具后， 他们的工作效率大大提高。
Same thing happened in offices.	这种事儿也发生在办公室里。
Back in the old days, people used spreadsheets.	过去，人们使用报表。
Spreadsheets were spread sheets of paper, and they calculated by hand.	就是那种纸制棋盘式对照表格， 用于笔算。
But here was an interesting thing that came along.	之后发生了一件有意思的事情。
With the revolution around 1980 of P.C.'s, the spreadsheet programs were tuned for office workers, not to replace office workers, but it respected office workers as being capable of being programmers.	随着二十世纪八十年代的个人电脑革命， 电子表格软件不但没有取代办公室一族， 反倒受到了他们的青睐， 办公族摇身变为程序设计师，
So office workers became programmers of spreadsheets.	他们成了电子表格的程序设计师。
It increased their capabilities.	电子表格增强了他们的能力。
They no longer had to do the mundane computations, but they could do something much more.	办公族再也不用做无聊的笔算， 他们可以做更多的事儿。
Now today, we're starting to see robots in our lives.	如今，我们开始审视机器人在我们生活中的作用。
On the left there is the PackBot from iRobot.	左边的是由iRobot公司研发的PackBot机器人。
When soldiers came across roadside bombs in Iraq and Afghanistan, instead of putting on a bomb suit and going out and poking with a stick, as they used to do up until about 2002, they now send the robot out.	以前，当士兵们在伊拉克和阿富汗遇到路边炸弹时， 他们会穿上防爆衣并后退，然后用小棍儿去捅炸弹， 在2002年以前他们就是这么干的， 现在，他们会让机器人去搞定。
So the robot takes over the dangerous jobs.	可见，机器人接管了危险性工作。
On the right are some TUGs from a company called Aethon in Pittsburgh.	右边的是位于匹兹堡的Aethon公司研制的TUG机器人。
These are in hundreds of hospitals across the U.S.	美国有数百家医院正在使用这种机器人。
And they take the dirty sheets down to the laundry.	它们把脏布单送进洗衣房；
They take the dirty dishes back to the kitchen.	它们把脏盘子送回厨房；
They bring the medicines up from the pharmacy.	它们从药房取药；
And it frees up the nurses and the nurse's aides from doing that mundane work of just mechanically pushing stuff around to spend more time with patients.	而且这种机器人可以让护士和护士助手 从机械无聊的跑腿工作中解脱出来 好腾出他们的时间去照顾病人。
In fact, robots have become sort of ubiquitous in our lives in many ways.	事实上，机器人已经存在于我们生活中的许多方面，差不多是无处不在。
But I think when it comes to factory robots, people are sort of afraid, because factory robots are dangerous to be around.	但是，我感觉，工业机器人还是会让人生畏， 因为旁边有工业机器人会让人感觉很危险。
In order to program them, you have to understand six-dimensional vectors and quaternions.	因为要想对它们进行编程，你就必须懂得六维向量和四元数。
And ordinary people can't interact with them.	一般人没法与这些工业机器人交互。
And I think it's the sort of technology that's gone wrong.	我觉得这种科技走错了方向。
It's displaced the worker from the technology.	因为这种科技取代了工作者。
And I think we really have to look at technologies that ordinary workers can interact with.	我们真正需要的是 那种可以和普通工作者互动的科技。
And so I want to tell you today about Baxter, which we've been talking about.	所以我今天要隆重推荐巴克斯特，它是我们需要的那种工业机器人。
And Baxter, I see, as a way -- a first wave of robot that ordinary people can interact with in an industrial setting.	我认为巴克斯特掀起了第一个机器人浪潮—— 一个普通人可以和工业装置互动的浪潮。
So Baxter is up here.	让我们请出巴克斯特。
This is Chris Harbert from Rethink Robotics.	这位是克里斯·哈伯特，他为Rethink Robotics公司工作。
We've got a conveyor there.	那边有个输送带。
And if the lighting isn't too extreme -- Ah, ah! There it is. It's picked up the object off the conveyor.	光线是不是太强了…… 啊！看那儿。它从输送带上拾起一件东西。
It's going to come bring it over here and put it down.	它把东西拿到这边，然后放下。
And then it'll go back, reach for another object.	完成后，它会回到原位再找另一件东西。
The interesting thing is Baxter has some basic common sense.	有意思的是，巴克斯特有个基本的能力。
By the way, what's going on with the eyes?	你可能要问，那对眼睛是怎么回事？
The eyes are on the screen there.	就是它屏幕上的那对眼睛。
The eyes look ahead where the robot's going to move.	这对眼睛会瞅着这个机器人的移动方向。
So a person that's interacting with the robot understands where it's going to reach and isn't surprised by its motions.	这样，人们就可以和这个机器人互动 明白会朝什么地方移动，而不会被它的动作吓着。
Here Chris took the object out of its hand, and Baxter didn't go and try to put it down; it went back and realized it had to get another one.	克里斯现在从它的"手"中拿走东西， 巴克斯特没有去和克里斯争执。 它回到原位，并意识到得去拿另一件东西。
It's got a little bit of basic common sense, goes and picks the objects.	这就是它的小本事——去拾东西。
And Baxter's safe to interact with.	和巴克斯特互动是安全的。
You wouldn't want to do this with a current industrial robot.	但你肯定不敢和生产线上的工业机器人互动。
But with Baxter it doesn't hurt.	巴克斯特很温柔。
It feels the force, understands that Chris is there and doesn't push through him and hurt him.	它能感觉到外力，知道克里斯在旁边 而且不会硬去推他或伤害他。
But I think the most interesting thing about Baxter is the user interface.	最有意思的是巴克斯特的用户界面。
And so Chris is going to come and grab the other arm now.	现在克里斯要过来握住巴克斯特的另一只"手"。
And when he grabs an arm, it goes into zero-force gravity-compensated mode and graphics come up on the screen.	当他握住它的"手"时，它会进入"零力重力补偿"模式 各种图案会显示在它的屏幕上。
You can see some icons on the left of the screen there for what was about its right arm.	你可以看到屏幕左边有一些图标，就是我们的右边。
He's going to put something in its hand, he's going to bring it over here, press a button and let go of that thing in the hand.	克里斯要把一件东西塞到它的"手"里，他要把它挪到这儿， 按一下按钮，然后放下"手"里的东西。
And the robot figures out, ah, he must mean I want to put stuff down.	这个机器人明白了，啊，他是想让我把东西放下。
It puts a little icon there.	它在那个位置上放一个小图标。
He comes over here, and he gets the fingers to grasp together, and the robot infers, ah, you want an object for me to pick up.	克里斯走过来，他把机器人的"手指"握起来， 机器人会推断，啊，你想让我拾起一件东西。
That puts the green icon there.	然后在那个位置放一个绿色图标。
He's going to map out an area of where the robot should pick up the object from.	他会划出机器人应该拾东西的区域。
It just moves it around, and the robot figures out that was an area search.	机器人会在那个区域搜索要拾的东西。
He didn't have to select that from a menu.	克里斯其实不用从菜单里选择。
And now he's going to go off and train the visual appearance of that object while we continue talking.	现在他得在后面训练那件东西的视觉显示 我们在前面继续讲。
So as we continue here, I want to tell you about what this is like in factories.	我们继续， 我想告诉你们这个机器人在生产车间里的使用情况。
These robots we're shipping every day.	我们每天都会运出这些机器人。
They go to factories around the country.	它们会被送往全国各地的生产车间。
This is Mildred.	这位是米尔德蕾。
Mildred's a factory worker in Connecticut.	米尔德蕾是康涅狄格州一家工厂的工人。
She's worked on the line for over 20 years.	她已经在生产线上工作了20年。
One hour after she saw her first industrial robot, she had programmed it to do some tasks in the factory.	在她见到她的第一个工业机器人的一个小时候后， 她就已经给它布置了车间里的一些活儿。
She decided she really liked robots.	她于是喜欢上了机器人。
And it was doing the simple repetitive tasks that she had had to do beforehand.	因为机器人可以帮她干以前要她去做的那些简单重复的活儿。
Now she's got the robot doing it.	现在，她可以让机器人去搞定。
When we first went out to talk to people in factories about how we could get robots to interact with them better, one of the questions we asked them was, "Do you want your children to work in a factory?"	我们第一次到生产车间里和人们交谈的时候 就是谈谈我们怎么才能让这些机器人和它们更好的互动， 我们问的其中一个问题是， "你们想不想让你们的孩子在工厂里工作？"
The universal answer was "No, I want a better job than that for my children."	异口同声的回答是："不想，我想让我的孩子有份比那种好的工作。"
And as a result of that, Mildred is very typical of today's factory workers in the U.S.	可想而知，米尔德蕾是典型的 美国当今的工厂工人。
They're older, and they're getting older and older.	这些工人日渐衰老。
There aren't many young people coming into factory work.	但是没有多少年轻人到工厂工作。
And as their tasks become more onerous on them, we need to give them tools that they can collaborate with, so that they can be part of the solution, so that they can continue to work and we can continue to produce in the U.S.	她们的工作任务变得更加繁重， 我们需要提供能够协同配合他们工作的工具， 这样，这些工人就能成为解决方案的一部分， 他们能继续工作，美国就能继续生产。
And so our vision is that Mildred who's the line worker becomes Mildred the robot trainer.	我们的目标是让像米尔德蕾这样的生产线上的工人 成为机器人培训师。
She lifts her game, like the office workers of the 1980s lifted their game of what they could do.	米尔德蕾成为了机器人时代的玩家， 就像二十世纪八十年代的办公族成为了个人电脑时代的玩家那样。
We're not giving them tools that they have to go and study for years and years in order to use.	我们不会交给他们那种要花几年时间去学才能上手的工具。
They're tools that they can just learn how to operate in a few minutes.	这些工具只需他们花几分钟时间就能上手。
There's two great forces that are both volitional but inevitable.	有两个咄咄逼人但却无法避免的强大力量，
That's climate change and demographics.	就是气候变化和人口结构的变化。
Demographics is really going to change our world.	人口结构的变化真的会改变我们的世界。
This is the percentage of adults who are working age.	这是适龄工作成年人的百分比。
And it's gone down slightly over the last 40 years.	在过去的40年里，这一百分比略有下降。
But over the next 40 years, it's going to change dramatically, even in China.	但是在未来40年里，这一百分比会发生巨大变化，即使是在中国。
The percentage of adults who are working age drops dramatically.	适龄工作成年人的百分比急剧下降。
And turned up the other way, the people who are retirement age goes up very, very fast, as the baby boomers get to retirement age.	从另一种方面来看，退休年龄的人数急剧上升， 因为在婴儿潮时代出生的人都到了退休年龄。
That means there will be more people with fewer social security dollars competing for services.	这意味着，将有越来越多的人拿到更少的社会保障金 去争取有限的服务。
But more than that, as we get older we get more frail and we can't do all the tasks we used to do.	不仅如此，上了年纪以后，我们的身体也会变得更加虚弱 我们就不能再做以前能做的事儿。
If we look at the statistics on the ages of caregivers, before our eyes those caregivers are getting older and older.	如果看看护理人员的年龄统计数据， 就会发现护理人员的年龄越来越大。
That's happening statistically right now.	这是统计学所得出来的结论。
And as the number of people who are older, above retirement age and getting older, as they increase, there will be less people to take care of them.	随着年龄的增长，会有许多人超过退休年龄，而且他们的年纪会越来越大， 就会有越来越少的人能照顾他们。
And I think we're really going to have to have robots to help us.	我觉得，我们真得找机器人帮忙。
And I don't mean robots in terms of companions.	我不是说找机器人伴侣，
I mean robots doing the things that we normally do for ourselves but get harder as we get older.	而是说让机器人帮我们干我们平时干的那些活儿 那些我们上年纪的时候干不好的活儿。
Getting the groceries in from the car, up the stairs, into the kitchen.	什么把买的东西从车里拿出来呀，拿上楼呀，送进厨房之类的活儿。
Or even, as we get very much older, driving our cars to go visit people.	甚至是，当我们年事已高的时候， 让机器人开车带我们去串门。
And I think robotics gives people a chance to have dignity as they get older by having control of the robotic solution.	我认为，机器人可以给那些上了年纪的人获得尊严的机会， 因为他们可以控制机器人解决方案。
So they don't have to rely on people that are getting scarcer to help them.	他们也就不用依靠越来越少的人去帮助他们。
And so I really think that we're going to be spending more time with robots like Baxter and working with robots like Baxter in our daily lives. And that we will -- Here, Baxter, it's good.	我真觉得，我们可以和机器人和谐共处更长的时间， 和像巴克斯特这样的机器人 在我们的生活中一起干活儿。 噢也，巴克斯特！
And that we will all come to rely on robots over the next 40 years as part of our everyday lives.	在未来40年里，我们都回需要机器人的帮助 让它们在日常生活中发挥作用。
Thanks very much.	非常感谢！
When I was growing up in Montana, I had two dreams.	我在蒙太拿长大 有两个梦想
I wanted to be a paleontologist, a dinosaur paleontologist, and I wanted to have a pet dinosaur.	一个是成为古生物学家 研究恐龙的古生物学家 一个是拥有一个小恐龙作为宠物
And so that's what I've been striving for all of my life.	这是我整个生命中 工作的动力
I was very fortunate early in my career.	我很幸运 在我职业生涯的早期
I was fortunate in finding things.	我在发掘方面 很走运
I wasn't very good at reading things.	我不擅长于阅读
In fact, I don't read much of anything.	事实上，我并不读什么文献
I am extremely dyslexic, and so reading is the hardest thing I do.	我在阅读方面有障碍 阅读对我来说是最难的事
But instead, I go out and I find things.	但是我走出去，发掘东西
Then I just pick things up.	我就能获得信息
I basically practice for finding money on the street.	基本上我是靠在街上捡钱来训练的
And I wander about the hills, and I have found a few things.	我对山陵感兴趣 也发现了一些东西
And I have been fortunate enough to find things like the first eggs in the Western hemisphere and the first baby dinosaurs in nests, the first dinosaur embryos and massive accumulations of bones.	特别幸运的是 我发现了西半球上第一个恐龙蛋 第一个还在巢中的恐龙宝宝 第一个恐龙胚胎 还有数量巨大的恐龙骨头
And it happened to be at a time when people were just starting to begin to realize that dinosaurs weren't the big, stupid, green reptiles that people had thought for so many years.	那时刚好是 人们开始认识到 恐龙并不是笨重的爬虫的时期 人们从前这样想了很多年
People were starting to get an idea that dinosaurs were special.	那时大家开始觉得 恐龙其实挺特别的
And so, at that time, I was able to make some interesting hypotheses along with my colleagues.	所以那时候 我有机会试验很多理论 当然还有我的同僚们
We were able to actually say that dinosaurs -- based on the evidence we had -- that dinosaurs built nests and lived in colonies and cared for their young, brought food to their babies and traveled in gigantic herds.	我们能够证明 恐龙——从我们有的证据来看—— 恐龙能建巢 群居生活 能够照料幼小宝宝 捕食回巢给宝宝吃 迁移的时候是大群一起走的
So it was pretty interesting stuff.	这些都很有趣
I have gone on to find more things and discover that dinosaurs really were very social.	我还进一步发现 恐龙其实是非常社会性的动物
We have found a lot of evidence that dinosaurs changed from when they were juveniles to when they were adults.	我们有很多证据 说明恐龙在从少年到成年的期间 变化巨大
The appearance of them would have been different -- which it is in all social animals.	它们的外表很不一样—— 这在社会性的动物中可见
In social groups of animals, the juveniles always look different than the adults.	在动物的社会群体中 少年们总是和成年动物看起来不一样的
The adults can recognize the juveniles; the juveniles can recognize the adults.	这样成年动物就能认出少年动物 少年们也能认出成年动物
And so we're making a better picture of what a dinosaur looks like.	我们这样就对恐龙是什么样的动物 有了一个宏观的看法
And they didn't just all chase Jeeps around.	它们并不是仅仅乱追吉普车的
But it is that social thing that I guess attracted Michael Crichton.	我想正是这社会性 引起了迈克尔·克赖顿的兴趣
And in his book, he talked about the social animals.	在他的书里，他讲到了这个社会性
And then Steven Spielberg, of course, depicts these dinosaurs as being very social creatures.	接着斯蒂文·斯皮尔伯格，当然了 把恐龙们描绘成 非常社会性的动物
The theme of this story is building a dinosaur, and so we come to that part of "Jurassic Park."	他们故事的主题是重造恐龙 这样我们就有了"侏罗纪公园"的故事
Michael Crichton really was one of the first people to talk about bringing dinosaurs back to life.	迈克尔·克赖顿其实是第一批人 开始谈论怎么重新让恐龙复生的
You all know the story, right.	你们都知道这个故事吧
I mean, I assume everyone here has seen "Jurassic Park."	我指假设每个人都看过"侏罗纪公园"
If you want to make a dinosaur, you go out, you find yourself a piece of petrified tree sap -- otherwise known as amber -- that has some blood-sucking insects in it, good ones, and you get your insect and you drill into it and you suck out some DNA, because obviously all insects that sucked blood in those days sucked dinosaur DNA out.	如果你想造出个恐龙 你出去找一块石化的天然树脂—— 也就是所谓的琥珀—— 找一个有吸血昆虫的 质量好的 这样你有了昆虫，就钻个洞进去 吸出一些DNA 当然了，因为那时候所有的吸血昆虫 都吸的是恐龙的DNA
And you take your DNA back to the laboratory and you clone it.	你把DNA拿回实验室 克隆一把
And I guess you inject it into maybe an ostrich egg, or something like that, and then you wait, and, lo and behold, out pops a little baby dinosaur.	我猜是通过把DNA注射到一个鸵鸟蛋里 或者别的什么大蛋 你就等吧 运气好的话，小恐龙就破壳而出啦
And everybody's happy about that.	皆大欢喜
And they're happy over and over again.	皆大欢喜一次又一次之后
They keep doing it; they just keep making these things.	他们不断克隆，不断造恐龙
And then, then, then, and then ...	然后
Then the dinosaurs, being social, act out their socialness, and they get together, and they conspire.	这么多恐龙就社交起来啦 社会性十足 它们聚到一起 密谋策反
And, of course, that's what makes Steven Spielberg's movie -- conspiring dinosaurs chasing people around.	当然了，这就成就了斯蒂文·斯皮尔伯格的电影—— 造反的恐龙把人追得到处跑
So I assume everybody knows that if you actually had a piece of amber and it had an insect in it, and you drilled into it, and you got something out of that insect, and you cloned it, and you did it over and over and over again, you'd have a room full of mosquitos.	我假定每个人都知道 如果你真的拿一块琥珀，有昆虫的 钻个洞 得到一些原料 克隆一把，重复做这件事 你只能得到一屋子的蚊子
And probably a whole bunch of trees as well.	可能还不济一些树木
Now if you want dinosaur DNA, I say go to the dinosaur.	你想要恐龙的DNA 就要在恐龙身上找
So that's what we've done.	这正是我们的策略
Back in 1993 when the movie came out, we actually had a grant from the National Science Foundation to attempt to extract DNA from a dinosaur, and we chose the dinosaur on the left, a Tyrannosaurus rex, which was a very nice specimen.	回溯到1993年，当这个电影开始放映时 我们其实已经拿了国家科学基金， 在试图从恐龙化石中提取DNA 我们选了图上左边的恐龙 是个暴龙化石，保存得很好的标本
And one of my former doctoral students, Dr. Mary Schweitzer, actually had the background to do this sort of thing.	我当时的一个博士生 现在是玛丽·施韦策博士了 有做类似研究的 基础
And so she looked into the bone of this T. rex, one of the thigh bones, and she actually found some very interesting structures in there.	所以她在这个暴龙的骨头里 一条大腿骨里 找到了 一些非常有趣的组织
They found these red circular-looking objects, and they looked, for all the world, like red blood cells.	他们发现了红色的，圆形的东西 特别像 红细胞
And they're in what appear to be the blood channels that go through the bone.	它们正好在 血管里 在骨头中间
And so she thought, well, what the heck.	所以她就想，不如一试
So she sampled some material out of it.	她提取了一些组织出来
Now it wasn't DNA; she didn't find DNA.	这些不是DNA，她没找到DNA
But she did find heme, which is the biological foundation of hemoglobin.	但是她发现了原血红素 正是血红素 的基础
And that was really cool.	这是个大发现
That was interesting.	非常有趣
That was -- here we have 65-million-year-old heme.	这可是六千五百万年前的原血红素
Well we tried and tried and we couldn't really get anything else out of it.	我们试了很久 没得到任何结果
So a few years went by, and then we started the Hell Creek Project.	几年过去了 我们开始了地狱溪计划
And the Hell Creek Project was this massive undertaking to get as many dinosaurs as we could possibly find, and hopefully find some dinosaurs that had more material in them.	这个地狱溪计划是一场大发掘 目的是挖出尽量多的恐龙化石 希望发现一些恐龙化石 是有更多的遗传物质的
And out in eastern Montana there's a lot of space, a lot of badlands, and not very many people, and so you can go out there and find a lot of stuff.	在蒙太拿东部 那里有很多空地，很多不毛之地 没有什么居民 你可就出去找到很多东西
And we did find a lot of stuff.	我们也的确发现了很多东西
We found a lot of Tyrannosaurs, but we found one special Tyrannosaur, and we called it B-rex.	我们发现了很多暴龙化石 其中一种很特殊 叫做B型暴龙
And B-rex was found under a thousand cubic yards of rock.	B型暴龙是在 一片上千立方的岩石群下发现的
It wasn't a very complete T. rex, and it wasn't a very big T. rex, but it was a very special B-rex.	这并不完全是暴龙 也不是特别大的暴龙 但是这是一种十分特殊的B型暴龙
And I and my colleagues cut into it, and we were able to determine, by looking at lines of arrested growth, some lines in it, that B-rex had died at the age of 16.	我和同事们把化石切开 我们能够确定 从看骨头里的生长线， 这个B型暴龙是十六岁时死的
We don't really know how long dinosaurs lived, because we haven't found the oldest one yet.	我们并不知道恐龙一般活多久 因为我们还没找到最老的
But this one died at the age of 16.	但是这只恐龙在十六岁时死去
We gave samples to Mary Schweitzer, and she was actually able to determine that B-rex was a female based on medullary tissue found on the inside of the bone.	我们把样本给玛丽·施韦策 她能确定 这个B型暴龙是雌性 因为骨头里 的髓状组织的样子
Medullary tissue is the calcium build-up, the calcium storage basically, when an animal is pregnant, when a bird is pregnant.	髓状组织全是积累的钙 也就是钙库 动物怀孕时会产生 鸟类怀孕时也会产生
So here was the character that linked birds and dinosaurs.	这是一个把鸟类 和恐龙连起来的特征
But Mary went further.	玛丽继续探索
She took the bone, and she dumped it into acid.	她把骨头放入酸中
Now we all know that bones are fossilized, and so if you dump it into acid, there shouldn't be anything left.	我们知道骨头已经变成化石了 所以把化石放在酸里 应该会全溶解
But there was something left.	但是这次有些东西不溶
There were blood vessels left.	它们就是血管
There were flexible, clear blood vessels.	这些是柔韧的，透明的血管
And so here was the first soft tissue from a dinosaur.	也是第一次在恐龙化石里发现软组织
It was extraordinary.	这非常了不起
But she also found osteocytes, which are the cells that laid down the bones.	她还发现了骨细胞 也就是组成骨头的细胞
And try and try, we could not find DNA, but she did find evidence of proteins.	通过不断试验，我们还是没有发现DNA 但是她发现了蛋白质
But we thought maybe -- well, we thought maybe that the material was breaking down after it was coming out of the ground.	我们认为—— 仅仅是认为 在组织被发掘出来后，它们就很快降解了
We thought maybe it was deteriorating very fast.	我们认为这些组织降解的很快
And so we built a laboratory in the back of an 18-wheeler trailer, and actually took the laboratory to the field where we could get better samples.	所以我们就在一个十八轮的大方车里 造了个实验室 把实验室带到野外 我们发掘样本的地方
And we did. We got better material.	我们这样做了，也得到了更好的样本
The cells looked better.	细胞看起来更好
The vessels looked better.	血管看起来更好
Found the protein collagen.	胶原蛋白更好
I mean, it was wonderful stuff.	这都很完美
But it's not dinosaur DNA.	但是还是找不到恐龙的DNA
So we have discovered that dinosaur DNA, and all DNA, just breaks down too fast.	我们已经知道 恐龙的DNA，或者说所有的DNA 实在是降解的太快了
We're just not going to be able to do what they did in "Jurassic Park."	我们就是不能够 像电影"侏罗纪公园"里一样得到DNA
We're not going to be able to make a dinosaur based on a dinosaur.	我们不能用恐龙 来重造恐龙
But birds are dinosaurs.	但是还在鸟类就是恐龙
Birds are living dinosaurs.	鸟类是活恐龙
We actually classify them as dinosaurs.	我们其实把鸟类 归为和恐龙一类
We now call them non-avian dinosaurs and avian dinosaurs.	我们现在管恐龙叫非鸟类恐龙 管鸟类叫鸟类恐龙
So the non-avian dinosaurs are the big clunky ones that went extinct.	所以这些非鸟类恐龙 就是那些已经灭绝了的大家伙
Avian dinosaurs are our modern birds.	鸟类恐龙就是我们现代的鸟类
So we don't have to make a dinosaur because we already have them.	我们不需要造什么恐龙 我们已经有啦
I know, you're as bad as the sixth-graders.	你们简直就像一帮六年级学生
The sixth-graders look at it and they say, "No."	六年级学生看看我说："这行不通。"
"You can call it a dinosaur, but look at the velociraptor: the velociraptor is cool."	"你尽管叫这个为鸟类恐龙 但是看看真的迅猛龙，那才叫恐龙。"
"The chicken is not."	"鸡可不那么酷。"
So this is our problem, as you can imagine.	这正是我们的问题 你可以想象
The chicken is a dinosaur.	鸡就是恐龙
I mean it really is.	我是说，它真的是
You can't argue with it because we're the classifiers and we've classified it that way.	你辩不过我 因为我们是专管分类的人，我们就爱这么分
But the sixth-graders demand it.	但是六年级学生还是不认输
"Fix the chicken."	"你得改造鸡。"
So that's what I'm here to tell you about: how we are going to fix a chicken.	这就是我想告诉你们的 我们是怎么改造鸡的
So we have a number of ways that we actually can fix the chicken.	我们有几种方法 可以把鸡改造成恐龙
Because evolution works, we actually have some evolutionary tools.	因为有进化 我们可以用进化的方法
We'll call them biological modification tools.	我们管它叫生物改良法
We have selection.	我们可以选择
And we know selection works.	我们也知道选择是可行的
We started out with a wolf-like creature and we ended up with a Maltese.	我们从一只狼一样的动物开始 最后得到一个马耳他人
I mean, that's -- that's definitely genetic modification.	我是说，这真的—— 真的是基因改良工程
Or any of the other funny-looking little dogs.	或者任何其它有趣的好看的小狗
We also have transgenesis.	我们还有转基因技术
Transgenesis is really cool too.	转基因也是很有用的工具
That's where you take a gene out of one animal and stick it in another one.	你把一个动物的基因拿出来，放在另一个动物里
That's how people make GloFish.	这就是怎么做荧光鱼的
You take a glow gene out of a coral or a jellyfish and you stick it in a zebrafish, and, puff, they glow.	你拿一个荧光的基因 从珊瑚或者水母中来 放在斑马鱼体内 它们就能发荧光
And that's pretty cool.	很奇妙吧
And they obviously make a lot of money off of them.	人们用这个赚大钱
And now they're making Glow-rabbits and Glow-all-sorts-of-things.	现在他们在做荧光兔 荧光很多东西
I guess we could make a glow chicken.	我就想我们可以做个荧光鸡
But I don't think that'll satisfy the sixth-graders either.	但是我不认为这能够说服六年级学生
But there's another thing.	还有一个武器
There's what we call atavism activation.	叫做返祖激活
And atavism activation is basically -- an atavism is an ancestral characteristic.	返祖激活 其实就是—— 返祖现象就是重现祖先的特征
You heard that occasionally children are born with tails, and it's because it's an ancestral characteristic.	你听过 有些孩子出生时有小尾巴 这就是返祖现象
And so there are a number of atavisms that can happen.	有些返祖现象 常常发生
Snakes are occasionally born with legs.	蛇有时有腿
And here's an example.	这就是个例子
This is a chicken with teeth.	这是个生下来有牙齿的鸡
A fellow by the name of Matthew Harris at the University of Wisconsin in Madison actually figured out a way to stimulate the gene for teeth, and so was able to actually turn the tooth gene on and produce teeth in chickens.	一个叫马修·海瑞斯的人 在威斯康辛麦迪逊大学工作 发现了如何刺激 牙齿基因的生长 所以他能够让牙齿基因生长 在鸡身上长牙齿
Now that's a good characteristic.	这是个好的特征
We can save that one.	我们能保留这个科技
We know we can use that.	我们能用这个
We can make a chicken with teeth.	我们可以让鸡生牙齿
That's getting closer.	这离恐龙就近了一步
That's better than a glowing chicken.	比荧光鸡要有用
A friend of mine, a colleague of mine, Dr. Hans Larsson at McGill University, is actually looking at atavisms.	我有个朋友，一个同事 在麦克吉尔大学的汉斯·拉尔森博士 在研究返祖现象
And he's looking at them by looking at the embryo genesis of birds and actually looking at how they develop, and he's interested in how birds actually lost their tail.	他研究返祖 是通过研究鸟的胚胎发育 看它们是怎么发育的 他对鸟类的尾巴是怎么消失的感兴趣
He's also interested in the transformation of the arm, the hand, to the wing.	他同时也对前肢，爪子，和翅膀 的变化感兴趣
He's looking for those genes as well.	他也研究有关的基因
And I said, "Well, if you can find those, I can just reverse them and make what I need to make for the sixth-graders."	我说："如果你能找到这些基因， 我就能靠让它们倒行逆施， 得到六年级学生要求的恐龙鸡"
And so he agreed.	他同意了
And so that's what we're looking into.	这就是我们研究的东西
If you look at dinosaur hands, a velociraptor has that cool-looking hand with the claws on it.	如果你注意恐龙的爪子 迅猛龙 有特殊的手掌，末端有爪子
Archaeopteryx, which is a bird, a primitive bird, still has that very primitive hand.	始祖鸟，其实是鸟，一个鸟类的先祖 还有着先祖的手掌
But as you can see, the pigeon, or a chicken or anything else, another bird, has kind of a weird-looking hand, because the hand is a wing.	但是你可以看到，鸽子 或者鸡，或者其它任何一个鸟类 都有这样怪怪的手掌 因为手变成了翅膀
But the cool thing is that, if you look in the embryo, as the embryo is developing the hand actually looks pretty much like the archaeopteryx hand.	但是有趣的是 如果你看它们的胚胎 在胚胎发育的时候 州长其实看起来像是 始祖鸟的手掌
It has the three fingers, the three digits.	三个手指，三个脚趾
But a gene turns on that actually fuses those together.	但是后来一个基因开始运作，使得手指脚趾都混合在一起了
And so what we're looking for is that gene.	我们就在找这个基因
We want to stop that gene from turning on, fusing those hands together, so we can get a chicken that hatches out with a three-fingered hand, like the archaeopteryx.	我们希望防止这个基因运作 不让手掌混合在一起 我们就能得到三个手指的鸡 就像始祖鸟一样
And the same goes for the tails.	对尾巴也一样
Birds have basically rudimentary tails.	鸟类其实 有没发育完的尾巴
And so we know that in embryo, as the animal is developing, it actually has a relatively long tail.	我们知道 在胚胎中 当动物发育时 有个其实很长的尾巴
But a gene turns on and resorbs the tail, gets rid of it.	但是一个基因开始运作 消融了尾巴，它就消失了
So that's the other gene we're looking for.	这就是我们在找的另一个基因
We want to stop that tail from resorbing.	我们希望防止尾巴被消融
So what we're trying to do really is take our chicken, modify it and make the chickenosaurus.	所以我们试图做的 是拿一只鸡 改造它 并造出鸡恐龙
It's a cooler-looking chicken.	这鸡看起来就酷多了
But it's just the very basics.	但是这只是非常基本的改造
So that really is what we're doing.	这就是我们在做的东西
And people always say, "Why do that?	人们总是问："为什么做这个？
Why make this thing?	为什么造那个？
What good is it?"	有什么好处？"
Well, that's a good question.	这是个好问题
Actually, I think it's a great way to teach kids about evolutionary biology and developmental biology and all sorts of things.	事实上，我想这是教孩子 进化论和发育生物学 和其它很多东西 的最好方法
And quite frankly, I think if Colonel Sanders was to be careful how he worded it, he could actually advertise an extra piece.	坦白说我认为 如果肯德基山德士上校 当年想得开阔一些，他的措辞留心一下 说不定也能为鸡恐龙作上额外广告
Anyway -- When our dino-chicken hatches, it will be, obviously, the poster child, or what you might call a poster chick, for technology, entertainment and design.	总之—— 当我们的恐龙鸡孵化时 会变成海报明星宝宝 或者你可以称它海报明星鸡宝宝 代言科技，娱乐和设计
Thank you.	谢谢大家
Marco Tempest: What I'd like to show you today is something in the way of an experiment.	马尔科：今天我要向大家展示 一项正在进行中的实验
Today's its debut.	今天是首演
It's a demonstration of augmented reality.	这将是现实被增强的一个示范
And the visuals you're about to see are not prerecorded.	大家将要看到的画面并非提前录制
They are live and reacting to me in real time.	这是现场表演 跟我之间是即时互动
I like to think of it as a kind of technological magic.	我喜欢把它看成一种科技魔术
So fingers crossed.	祝我好运
And keep your eyes on the big screen.	请大家锁定大屏幕
Augmented reality is the melding of the real world with computer-generated imagery.	增强现实 是依靠电脑生成的图像 而与真实世界融为混合体
It seems the perfect medium to investigate magic and ask, why, in a technological age, we continue to have this magical sense of wonder.	这似乎是窥探魔术 的最佳途径 同时也向人们提问 在科技时代人们为何仍旧 对魔幻保有如此的感知力
Magic is deception, but it is a deception we enjoy.	魔术是一种骗术 但却令人享受
To enjoy being deceived, an audience must first suspend its disbelief.	要享受这种欺骗 观众必须首先 放弃怀疑
It was the poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge who first suggested this receptive state of mind.	第一次提出这种接受心态的 是诗人塞缪尔·泰勒·柯勒律治
Samuel Taylor Coleridge: I try to convey a semblance of truth in my writing to produce for these shadows of the imagination a willing suspension of disbelief that, for a moment, constitutes poetic faith.	柯勒律治说：我在写作中努力传达一种真理的假象 为想象力的影子 带来放弃怀疑的意愿 这样，在某个片刻 它们便能构成诗意的信念
MT: This faith in the fictional is essential for any kind of theatrical experience.	马尔科：对任何一种剧场的经验来说 这种虚幻的信念都至关重要
Without it, a script is just words.	没有这种信念 脚本就只是一堆字词
Augmented reality is just the latest technology.	增强现实 是最新的科技
And sleight of hand is just an artful demonstration of dexterity.	我手中的技巧 只是一种灵巧的 艺术的展示
We are all very good at suspending our disbelief.	我们都很擅长放弃怀疑
We do it every day, while reading novels, watching television or going to the movies.	每天如此 我们读小说 看电视 或者去看电影
We willingly enter fictional worlds where we cheer our heroes and cry for friends we never had.	我们自愿进入虚拟的世界 在那里崇拜英雄 为从不曾有的朋友哭泣
Without this ability there is no magic.	没有这种能力 也就没有魔术
It was Jean Robert-Houdin, France's greatest illusionist, who first recognized the role of the magician as a storyteller.	让·罗伯特·胡迪 法国伟大的魔术师 第一次发现魔术师 可以成为说书人
He said something that I've posted on the wall of my studio.	他的话就刻在我工作室的墙上
Jean Robert-Houdin: A conjurer is not a juggler.	让·罗伯特·胡迪：魔术师不是骗子
He is an actor playing the part of a magician.	而是表演魔术的演员
MT: Which means magic is theater and every trick is a story.	马尔科：这说明魔术是一场戏剧 一招一式 都是故事
The tricks of magic follow the archetypes of narrative fiction.	魔法的招数 遵循叙事小说的原型
There are tales of creation and loss, death and resurrection, and obstacles that must be overcome.	故事有创造，有失败 有死亡，有复活 还有必须攀越的障碍
Now many of them are intensely dramatic.	现今很多故事的戏剧性都很强
Magicians play with fire and steel, defy the fury of the buzzsaw, dare to catch a bullet or attempt a deadly escape.	魔术师玩弄烈火钢刀 挑战电锯金刚的狂怒 有勇气手接子弹 并试图从死亡线逃离
But audiences don't come to see the magician die, they come to see him live.	但是观众却未曾见到魔术师的死亡 他们总安全无事
Because the best stories always have a happy ending.	因为最好的故事 总以快乐结尾
The tricks of magic have one special element.	魔术的诀窍在于一种特殊的元素
They are stories with a twist.	即是故事的离奇性
Now Edward de Bono argued that our brains are pattern matching machines.	爱德华·德·博诺说 人们的大脑是一种图形匹配的机器
He said that magicians deliberately exploit the way their audiences think.	他说，魔术师很谨慎地发掘 观众的想法
Edward de Bono: Stage magic relies almost wholly on the momentum error.	爱德华·德·博诺：舞台魔术基本上 全部仰仗动量的误差
The audience is led to make assumptions or elaborations that are perfectly reasonable, but do not, in fact, match what is being done in front of them.	观众被引导做出种种假设或构思 看似十分合理 但事实上 却和魔术师展示大相径庭
MT: In that respect, magic tricks are like jokes.	马尔科：在这方面 魔术和笑话很像
Jokes lead us down a path to an expected destination.	笑话带人们上路 指向一个预期的终点
But when the scenario we have imagined suddenly flips into something entirely unexpected, we laugh.	当我们想象的场景突然转变 完全出乎意料 我们就会大笑
The same thing happens when people watch magic tricks.	人们观看魔术 也是这样
The finale defies logic, gives new insight into the problem, and audiences express their amazement with laughter.	压轴的地方 不合逻辑 在同一问题上给出全新的见解 观众的惊愕 变成哈哈大笑
It's fun to be fooled.	被愚弄是很有趣的
One of the key qualities of all stories is that they're made to be shared.	故事最重要的特点之一 就是创造之后的分享
We feel compelled to tell them.	我们总是迫不及待地想要讲述
When I do a trick at a party -- that person will immediately pull their friend over and ask me to do it again.	每当我在晚会上表演魔术-- 那个人就立即拉他的朋友过来 叫我再演一次
They want to share the experience.	他们想分享这种经历
That makes my job more difficult, because, if I want to surprise them, I need to tell a story that starts the same, but ends differently -- a trick with a twist on a twist.	但这让表演变得越来越难 因为，如果我想给他们惊喜 我讲的故事开头相同 但结尾却必须不同-- 招数有所改变 改变就在其中
It keeps me busy.	这搞的我很忙
Now experts believe that stories go beyond our capacity for keeping us entertained.	专家们在今天相信 出人意料的故事给人带来欢乐
We think in narrative structures.	我们按照叙事的结构思考
We connect events and emotions and instinctively transform them into a sequence that can be easily understood.	把事件和情感相连 几乎同时将之转化 变成容易理解的故事线
It's a uniquely human achievement.	这是人类的独特才能
We all want to share our stories, whether it is the trick we saw at the party, the bad day at the office or the beautiful sunset we saw on vacation.	所有人都想分享自己的故事 不论是晚会中上演的把戏 办公室糟糕的一天 或假期中的美丽日落
Today, thanks to technology, we can share those stories as never before, by email, Facebook, blogs, tweets, on TED.com.	今天，感谢科技 故事可以通过不同以往的方式分享 比如电子邮件，脸谱网， 博客，微博 TED.com
The tools of social networking, these are the digital campfires around which the audience gathers to hear our story.	社交网络工具 成为一种数字式的营火 观众聚集在其周围 倾听我们的故事
We turn facts into similes and metaphors, and even fantasies.	我们赋予事实明喻或暗喻 甚至幻想
We polish the rough edges of our lives so that they feel whole.	我们将生活艰难的一面打磨 生活得以完整
Our stories make us the people we are and, sometimes, the people we want to be.	故事成就我们对自身的认同 而有时候，它让我们成为自己想要变成的那种人的认同
They give us our identity and a sense of community.	故事赋予我们身份 让我们感觉到社区的存在
And if the story is a good one, it might even make us smile.	如果故事不赖 就能让人开怀而笑
Thank you.	谢谢
Thank you.	（鼓掌） 谢谢
	（鼓掌）
Hi.	大家好！
I did that for two reasons.	我这样做有两个原因
First of all, I wanted to give you a good visual first impression.	第一 我想在视觉上给你们 一个良好的第一印象
But the main reason I did it is that that's what happens to me when I'm forced to wear a Lady Gaga skanky mic.	但其实我这样做的主要原因 是我被强迫戴上 这个Lady Gaga风的古怪麦克风
I'm used to a stationary mic.	我习惯固定式麦克风
It's the sensible shoe of public address.	那才是公开场合演讲标配
But you clamp this thing on my head, and something happens.	但是 我头上被卡上这个东西后 怪事发生了
I just become skanky.	我也变得怪里怪气了
So I'm sorry about that.	对不住大家
And I'm already off-message.	我都跑题了
Ladies and gentlemen, I have devoted the past 25 years of my life to designing books.	女士们 先生们 我花了二十五年的宝贵光阴 致力于设计书本
("Yes, BOOKS. You know, the bound volumes with ink on paper.	"对，书。就是把一沓上面有墨水的纸订一起。
You cannot turn them off with a switch.	你不能用开关关掉它。
Tell your kids.") It all sort of started as a benign mistake, like penicillin.	记得告诉你孩子。" 其实我干这行也是无心插柳柳成荫 就跟当初发现青霉素似的
What I really wanted was to be a graphic designer at one of the big design firms in New York City.	我本来想的是 成为纽约市 一家大型设计公司的美术编辑
But upon arrival there, in the fall of 1986, and doing a lot of interviews, I found that the only thing I was offered was to be Assistant to the Art Director at Alfred A. Knopf, a book publisher.	当时的情形是 1986年秋天 在经历了大批的面试之后 我唯一接到的聘书就是 阿尔弗雷德•克诺夫出版社的艺术总监助理 那是一家图书出版商
Now I was stupid, but not so stupid that I turned it down.	我承认我当时的确挺蠢的 但还没有蠢到让自己失业
I had absolutely no idea what I was about to become part of, and I was incredibly lucky.	我压根不知道 我到底要干啥 不过我真的太走运了
Soon, it had occurred to me what my job was.	很快 我就知道我的工作是什么了
My job was to ask this question: "What do the stories look like?"	我的工作就是问这个问题： "这些故事看上去像什么？"
Because that is what Knopf is.	因为这就是克诺夫的风格
It is the story factory, one of the very best in the world.	它是个故事工厂 世上最好的故事工厂之一
We bring stories to the public.	我们把故事带给公众
The stories can be anything, and some of them are actually true.	故事五花八门 有一些是真有其事
But they all have one thing in common: They all need to look like something.	但他们有一个共同点： 他们需要看上去像个什么玩意儿
They all need a face.	它们需要一副面孔
Why? To give you a first impression of what you are about to get into.	为什么呢? 就是给你 即将步入的世界一个第一印象
A book designer gives form to content, but also manages a very careful balance between the two.	书籍设计师用形式来表达内容 同时 还要非常小心地使两者平衡
Now, the first day of my graphic design training at Penn State University, the teacher, Lanny Sommese, came into the room and he drew a picture of an apple on the blackboard, and wrote the word "Apple" underneath, and he said, "OK. Lesson one. Listen up."	犹记得 我在宾州州立大学平面设计培训的第一天 我的老师，Lanny Sommese，走进教室 在黑板上画了一张苹果的图片 在下面写上"苹果" 他说，"第一堂课，听好了啊。"
And he covered up the picture and he said, "You either say this," and then he covered up the word, "or you show this.	他把图片盖上，又说 你们要么说这个，"接着他又把字盖上 "要么画这个
But you don't do this."	不能两者同时出现。"
Because this is treating your audience like a moron.	因为那样的话就是把观众当弱智啊
And they deserve better.	（笑) 观众可不是弱智
And lo and behold, soon enough, I was able to put this theory to the test on two books that I was working on for Knopf.	你瞧 很快 我就能把这个理论 试用到我为克诺夫设计的两本书上
The first was Katharine Hepburn's memoirs, and the second was a biography of Marlene Dietrich.	第一本是凯瑟琳·赫本的回忆录 第二本是玛琳·黛德丽的传记
Now the Hepburn book was written in a very conversational style, it was like she was sitting across a table telling it all to you.	赫本的书 是用非常口语化的语言写就的 就像她坐在桌子对面跟你聊天一样
The Dietrich book was an observation by her daughter; it was a biography.	黛德丽的书是一本以她女儿 的视角所观察出的一部传记
So the Hepburn story is words and the Dietrich story is pictures, and so we did this.	赫本的故事是用语言 黛德丽的故事是用图画，所以我们做了这个
So there you are.	你们来看
Pure content and pure form, side by side.	单纯的内容和单纯的形式，肩并肩
No fighting, ladies.	好好相处哟,两位女士
Now, what is the story here?	"什么是侏罗纪公园？" 是一个什么样的故事呢？
Someone is re-engineering dinosaurs by extracting their DNA from prehistoric amber.	有人 从史前时代的琥珀里 提取了恐龙的DNA 把恐龙复活了。
Genius!	小伙儿你行！
Now, luckily for me, I live and work in New York City, where there are plenty of dinosaurs.	有一点幸运的是 我在纽约市居住和工作 那儿的恐龙可是相当多啊
So, I went to the Museum of Natural History, and I checked out the bones, and I went to the gift shop, and I bought a book.	然后 我去了自然历史博物馆 在那好好看了看恐龙骨架，然后我又去了礼品店 在那买了一本书
And I was particularly taken with this page of the book, and more specifically the lower right-hand corner.	我特别喜欢书中的这一页 更具体点就是右下角那张图
Now I took this diagram, and I put it in a Photostat machine, and I took a piece of tracing paper, and I taped it over the Photostat with a piece of Scotch tape -- stop me if I'm going too fast -- -- and then I took a Rapidograph pen -- explain it to the youngsters -- and I just started to reconstitute the dinosaur.	我选了这个图 我把它放到复印机里 我又取了一张描图纸 我用一片透明胶带 把它贴到复印机上——如果我讲得太快了请告诉我—— 我又拿出一支绘图笔—— 告诉那边的小伙子那是啥—— 然后我就开始重建恐龙了
I had no idea what I was doing, I had no idea where I was going, but at some point, I stopped -- when to keep going would seem like I was going too far.	我其实不知道自己在做什么 也不知道会整出个啥玩意儿 但做了一会儿之后，我觉得我得停了—— 再做下去看来有点太过火
And what I ended up with was a graphic representation of us seeing this animal coming into being.	最终我们看到的 图形中的动物是这个样子
We're in the middle of the process.	这还没完
And then I just threw some typography on it.	我又稍作了一点后期加工
Very basic stuff, slightly suggestive of public park signage.	简单弄了一下 顺便影射了一下咱们公园的标识有多简陋
Everybody in house loved it, and so off it goes to the author.	出版社里人都挺喜欢它的 于是它就被送到作者那里去了
And even back then, Michael was on the cutting edge.	即使在当时 迈克尔说话也挺潮的
That was a relief to see that pour out of the machine.	迈克尔·克莱顿在传真里回复到： "擦！这书封他妈的太帅了" 看见这张传真从机器里出来的时候我才真正安心了
I miss Michael.	我真想迈克尔
And sure enough, somebody from MCA Universal calls our legal department to see if they can maybe look into buying the rights to the image, just in case they might want to use it.	果然 环球影业有人 打电话到我们法律部 问是否能买到这张图的版权 以备将来之用
Well, they used it.	好吧，他们最后真的用了
And I was thrilled.	我当时很激动
We all know it was an amazing movie, and it was so interesting to see it go out into the culture and become this phenomenon and to see all the different permutations of it.	我们都知道那是一部很棒的电影 而且看到这成了一种文化 成了一种现象 还有各种衍生品 还真挺有意思的
But not too long ago, I came upon this on the Web.	但就在不久前 我在网上无意看见这个图
No, that is not me.	那可不是我噢
But whoever it is, I can't help but thinking they woke up one day like, "Oh my God, that wasn't there last night. Ooooohh!	但 不管是谁 我禁不住会想 他们要是有天醒过来叫 "天哪，昨晚这可还啥也没的呀。啊啊啊啊啊！
I was so wasted."	我算是完蛋了。"
But if you think about it, from my head to my hands to his leg.	想想 这个图画经由我的脑袋 到我的手最后到了他腿上
That's a responsibility.	这还真是种责任
And it's a responsibility that I don't take lightly.	不过这是种我不能轻易担当的责任
The book designer's responsibility is threefold: to the reader, to the publisher and, most of all, to the author.	图书设计师有三重责任 对读者 对出版商 最重要的是对作者
I want you to look at the author's book and say, "Wow! I need to read that."	我希望你看到该作者的书 会说，"哇！我得看看这本书。"
David Sedaris is one of my favorite writers, and the title essay in this collection is about his trip to a nudist colony.	大卫·塞达斯是我最喜欢的作家之一 这本合集的文章标题 是关于他的裸体主义殖民地之旅的
And the reason he went is because he had a fear of his body image, and he wanted to explore what was underlying that.	他去的原因是 他害怕自己身体的样子 他想探究一下原因所在
For me, it was simply an excuse to design a book that you could literally take the pants off of.	但这本书对我的意义是 我终于有机会 设计一本能脱裤子的书了
But when you do, you don't get what you expect.	但即使你真这样做了 你也不见得就能看见你想看的
You get something that goes much deeper than that.	你得到的东西要深刻得多
And David especially loved this design because at book signings, which he does a lot of, he could take a magic marker and do this.	大卫特别喜爱这个设计 因为在他做的很多书籍签名会上 他会拿支神奇的马克笔然后画个这玩意儿
Hello!	喂！
Augusten Burroughs wrote a memoir called ["Dry"], and it's about his time in rehab.	奥古斯丁·巴勒斯写过一本传记 叫做《干燥》 记述了他在康复的事经历
In his 20s, he was a hotshot ad executive, and as Mad Men has told us, a raging alcoholic.	他20几岁时 就成为一位相当成功的广告公司主管了 不过像《广告狂人》里一样，他是个疯狂的酒鬼
He did not think so, however, but his coworkers did an intervention and they said, "You are going to rehab, or you will be fired and you will die."	他本人并不以为然 不过他的同事都劝他说 "你要去康复中心，不然，你会被炒鱿鱼，你会死掉的。"
Now to me, this was always going to be a typographic solution, what I would call the opposite of Type 101.	对我来说 有一种排版法一直都靠谱 我称之为101型的对立面
What does that mean?	这是什么意思呢？
Usually on the first day of Introduction to Typography, you get the assignment of, select a word and make it look like what it says it is. So that's Type 101, right?	通常在上印刷术简介课的第一天 你的作业是选一个字 然后把这个字写得像它所表达的意思
Very simple stuff.	非常简单
This is going to be the opposite of that.	我这个方法其实就是反着来
I want this book to look like it's lying to you, desperately and hopelessly, the way an alcoholic would.	我想让这本书看上去像在撒谎 绝望无助地撒谎，就跟酒鬼一样的
The answer was the most low-tech thing you can imagine.	我用了你所能想象到的最没技术含量的方法
I set up the type, I printed it out on an Epson printer with water-soluble ink, taped it to the wall and threw a bucket of water at it. Presto!	我设置了字型 然后用爱普生的 水溶性墨水打印出来 贴到墙上 再把一桶水浇上去 瞬间变样！
Then when we went to press, the printer put a spot gloss on the ink and it really looked like it was running.	接着我们拿到出版社 打印机在墨水上加了点光泽 看上去真像在往下流
Not long after it came out, Augusten was waylaid in an airport and he was hiding out in the bookstore spying on who was buying his books.	出版没多久，奥古斯丁埋伏在一个机场 他藏在一个书店里 偷看谁在买他的书
And this woman came up to it, and she squinted, and she took it to the register, and she said to the man behind the counter, "This one's ruined."	有一位老太太走过来 她瞅了一眼 就把书拿到收款处 对店员说，"这本书印坏了。"
And the guy behind the counter said, "I know, lady. They all came in that way."	店员站在柜台后说，"我知道，女士。它们来的时候就成这样了。"
Now, that's a good printing job.	印刷厂的伙计们干的还真不赖嘛
A book cover is a distillation.	一本书的封面 是书的精华
It is a haiku, if you will, of the story.	也可以说 是这个故事的俳句总结
This particular story by Osama Tezuka is his epic life of the Buddha, and it's eight volumes in all. But the best thing is when it's on your shelf, you get a shelf life of the Buddha, moving from one age to the next.	手塚治虫 在他写的 菩萨史诗中有一个很特殊的故事 这书总共有8卷。最棒的是 当它上了你的书架 你就得到了 一排菩萨，而且还是不同年龄段的
All of these solutions derive their origins from the text of the book, but once the book designer has read the text, then he has to be an interpreter and a translator.	所有这些方案 是从书的内容发掘出来的 而一旦图书设计师读到了内容 他就变成了一位诠释者 和翻译者
This story was a real puzzle.	这个故事才是个真正的谜
This is what it's about.	就是这么回事
All right, so I got a collection of the paintings together and I looked at them and I deconstructed them and I put them back together.	"十六世纪奥斯曼法庭画家的阴谋和谋杀。" 那好 我就收集了一些画 我看着它们 解构它们 又把它们组合起来
And so, here's the design, right?	所以 这就成了设计 对吧
And so here's the front and the spine, and it's flat.	这是封面和书脊 是平的
But the real story starts when you wrap it around a book and put it on the shelf.	但当你用它包上书 放到书架上 故事就开始了
Ahh! We come upon them, the clandestine lovers. Let's draw them out.	啊！我们看到了 秘密情人 让我们再拉出来看看吧
Huhh! They've been discovered by the sultan.	噢！他们被苏丹发现了
He will not be pleased.	他不会开心的
Huhh! And now the sultan is in danger.	嗬！现在苏丹身处危险
And now, we have to open it up to find out what's going to happen next.	现在我们需要打开来 看看下面会发生什么事
Try experiencing that on a Kindle.	你能用Kindle这么玩么？
Don't get me started.	别提了 说了我就来气
Seriously.	说真的
Much is to be gained by eBooks: ease, convenience, portability.	电子书籍提供了很多 轻松，方便，便携
But something is definitely lost: tradition, a sensual experience, the comfort of thingy-ness -- a little bit of humanity.	但是有个东西一定不在了：传统 一种感官体验，那种物质特有的安慰—— 和一点点的人性
Do you know what John Updike used to do the first thing when he would get a copy of one of his new books from Alfred A. Knopf?	你知道约翰·厄普代克 从阿尔弗雷德•克诺夫出版社拿到新书后 做的第一件事是什么吗？
He'd smell it.	他会闻闻它
Then he'd run his hand over the rag paper, and the pungent ink and the deckled edges of the pages.	接着他会用手摸遍书页 刺鼻的油墨 纸的裁边
All those years, all those books, he never got tired of it.	从始至终 一本不拉 他从未厌倦过
Now, I am all for the iPad, but trust me -- smelling it will get you nowhere.	当然我也觉得IPAD很好 但不骗你 闻它你可是啥都闻不到的
Now the Apple guys are texting, "Develop odor emission plug-in."	这会儿苹果员工正在给工程师发短信呢 "赶紧开发气味分泌插件。"
And the last story I'm going to talk about is quite a story.	最后我要讲的是一个很有意思的故事
A woman named Aomame in 1984 Japan finds herself negotiating down a spiral staircase off an elevated highway. When she gets to the bottom, she can't help but feel that, all of a sudden, she's entered a new reality that's just slightly different from the one that she left, but very similar, but different.	1984年 在日本有一个叫青豆的女人 发现自己正沿着立交桥 盘旋下行 当她到达底部时 她突然不禁觉得 她走进了一个新的世界 这和她离开的那个略有不同 像 但不一样
And so, we're talking about parallel planes of existence, sort of like a book jacket and the book that it covers.	其实我们在说的是世界的平行层的存在 就像一本书和它的封面一样
So how do we show this?	那我们如何来表示呢？
We go back to Hepburn and Dietrich, but now we merge them.	我们再回到赫本和黛德丽，但这次把她们合并
So we're talking about different planes, different pieces of paper.	我们在讲不同的层面，那就用不同的纸层
So this is on a semi-transparent piece of velum.	这是一片半透明的膜
It's one part of the form and content.	它是形式和内容的一部分
When it's on top of the paper board, which is the opposite, it forms this.	当它在纸的上面时 即反过来放 就成这样了
So even if you don't know anything about this book, you are forced to consider a single person straddling two planes of existence.	所以 即使你一点也不了解这本书 你也会不由自主地觉得这是一个人 跨越了两个层面的存在
And the object itself invited exploration interaction, consideration and touch.	这个书实物本身就引起了探索 互动 思考 和接触
This debuted at number two on the New York Times Best Seller list.	这本书一登场就居 《纽约时报》畅销书排行榜第二
This is unheard of, both for us the publisher, and the author.	这对于出版社和作者 都是前所未闻的
We're talking a 900-page book that is as weird as it is compelling, and featuring a climactic scene in which a horde of tiny people emerge from the mouth of a sleeping girl and cause a German Shepherd to explode.	我们在讲是一本900页的书 它不仅好看而且很怪异 它的高潮片段居然是 一群小人 从一名熟睡了的女孩嘴里出来 然后把一条德国牧羊犬弄炸了！
Not exactly Jackie Collins.	不完全是杰基·柯林斯的风格嘛
Fourteen weeks on the Best Seller list, eight printings, and still going strong.	十四周位居畅销书排行榜 印了8次 仍然势头不减
So even though we love publishing as an art, we very much know it's a business too, and that if we do our jobs right and get a little lucky, that great art can be great business.	即使我们像爱艺术一样爱出版 我们也很清楚 这毕竟也是生意 如果我们做得对 运气又不差的话 那伟大的艺术也能成伟大的生意
So that's my story. To be continued.	这就是我的故事 未完待续
What does it look like?	这故事到底看起来怎么样?
Yes. It can, it does and it will, but for this book designer, page-turner, dog-eared place-holder, notes in the margins-taker, ink-sniffer, the story looks like this.	我知道 这种场景不仅可能 而且正在并且还会继续发生 不过对我这个书籍设计师 读者 旧书的收集者 在书上作批注的人 以及闻墨香的人来说 在我眼中这个故事是这样的
Thank you.	谢谢大家。
Hi everyone. I'm Sirena.	大家好，我叫黄凱珉。
I'm 11 years old and from Connecticut.	我今年十一岁，来自康涅狄格州。
Well, I'm not really sure why I'm here.	嗯，我确实不知道我为什么会在这里。
I mean, what does this have to do with technology, entertainment and design?	我的意思是，我和这些到底有什么关系 科技，娱乐和设计？
Well, I count my iPod, cellphone and computer as technology but this has nothing to do with that.	好吧，我把我的iPod，手机和电脑都称为科技 但这都和这个没有关系。
So I did a little research on it.	那么我做了一些研究。
Well, this is what I found.	这是我的发现。
Of course, I hope I can memorize it.	当然，我希望我能在这里记得说出来。
The violin is basically made of a wood box and four main strings.	小提琴基本上是用木头块做的。 它有四根主弦。
By playing the string, the string vibrates and produces a sound wave.	通过拉弦，弦产生震动。 结果产生一种声波。
Sound passes through a piece of wood called a bridge and goes down to the wood box and gets amplified but ... let me think.	声音通过称为琴马的木板 进入木盒，然后得到放大。 可是⋯让我想想。
Okay. On the other hand by placing your finger in a different position on the fingerboard it changes the string length, that changes the frequency of the sound wave.	想起来了，在另一方面 通过把手放在指板的不同位置 它改变弦的长度 这改变声波的频率。
Oh, my gosh!	噢，我的天哪！
Okay. This is sort of a technology but I can call it a 16th-century technology.	好吧，这就是所谓的科技。 但我把它叫做十六世纪的科技。
But actually, the most fascinating thing that I found was that even the audio system or wave transmission nowadays are still basically based on the same principle of producing and projecting sound.	实际上，我发现最美妙的事是 当时称之为的声音系统 现在叫做声波的传递 现在根本上还是基于同样的原则 来产生和放大声音。
Isn't that cool?	这是不是很酷？
Design -- I love its design.	（鼓掌） 设计—我喜欢小提琴的设计。
I remember when I was little my mom asked me, would you like to play the violin or the piano?	我记得我小的时候 我妈妈问我 你是喜欢拉小提琴还是弹钢琴？
I looked at that giant monster and said to myself -- I am not going to lock myself on that bench the whole day.	我看看那庞然大物 我自言自语地说 我可不要把我锁在那张板凳上 整整一天。
This is small and lightweight.	这个很小，很轻。
I can play from standing, sitting or walking.	我可以站着、坐着或走着拉。
And you know what?	而且你知道吗？
The best of all is that if I don't want to practice, I can hide it.	最好的事情是如果我不想练习 我可以把它藏起来。
The violin is very beautiful.	小提琴非常美丽。
Some people relate it as the shape of a lady but, whether you like it or not, it's been so for more than 400 years, unlike modern stuff that easily looks dated.	有些人把它联系到女人的身材之美 但是无论你喜欢于否 它已经有四百多年的历史， 与那些时髦一时的现代东西相比，它却是百年不衰。
But I think it's very personal and unique that, although each violin looks pretty similar, that no two violins sound the same.	但是我认为它因人而异，具有非常独特的品质， 虽然每一把小提琴看起来都很相似 但没有任何两把小提琴发出同样的声音。
Even from the same maker or based on the same model.	即使是出自同一制造者 或基于同一模式。
Entertainment -- I love the entertainment, but actually, the instrument itself isn't very entertaining.	娱乐—我喜欢娱乐。 可实际上，小提琴本身 并没有什么娱乐性。
I mean, when I first got my violin and tried to play around, it was actually, really bad because it didn't sound like the way I'd heard from other kids -- so horrible and so scratchy -- so it wasn't entertaining at all.	我的意思是，当我开始拉小提琴时 我试着拉，当时的小提琴 事实上声音很不好听 它发出的声音并不像其他孩子那样拉得好听 声音很糟，很刺耳 因此我开始拉的小提琴一点没有娱乐性。
But besides, my brother found this very funny.	尽管如此，我弟弟认为这个很好玩。
Yuk, yuk, yuk.	呀，呀，呀。
A few years later I heard a joke about the greatest violinist, Jascha Heifetz.	几年之后，我听到一个笑话 是关于最伟大的小提琴家雅沙·海菲兹的故事。
After Mr. Heifetz's concert a lady came over and complimented, "Oh, Mr. Heifetz, your violin sounded so great tonight."	一次海菲兹音乐会之后 一位女士前来恭维， 噢，海菲兹先生，您今晚之小提琴的声音太美妙了。
And Mr. Heifetz was a very cool person, so he picked up his violin and said, "Funny, I don't hear anything."	海菲兹先生当时很酷 他拿起小提琴，他说， 有意思，我可听不见任何声音。
And now, I realize that as the musician, we human beings, we have a great mind, artistic heart and skill that can change the 16th-century technology and a legendary design to a wonderful entertainment.	现在，我认识到，作为一个音乐家 我们人类，我们有一个奇妙的大脑， 艺术的心灵和技巧 这些可以改变十六世纪的科技 一个传奇的设计 成为一个美妙的娱乐。
Now, I know why I'm here.	现在，我明白了我为什么会在这里。
At first I thought I was just going to be here to perform, but unexpectedly, I learned and enjoyed much more.	起初，我以为我到这里来只是为了表演 我没有想到是，我却学到和得到更多的东西，
But ... although some of them were quite up there for me.	但是⋯尽管其中的许多东西对我来说都特别深奥。
Like the multi-dimension stuff.	比如多维的东西。
I mean, honestly, I'd be happy enough if I can actually get my two dimension correct in school.	我的意思是，坦白地说，我会相当地满足 如果我能在学校里能够明白平面的空间。
But actually, the most impressive thing to me is that ... well, actually, I would also like to stand this for all children is to say, thank you, to all adults for actually caring for us a lot and to make our future world much better.	但事实上，最令人印象深刻的事情对我来说 是这个⋯真的， 我还要在此为所有的儿童 对所有的大人们说一声，谢谢你们 给我们许多真切的关怀 和对我们更美好未来所做的一切努力。
Thank you.	谢谢你们。
	（鼓掌） （鼓掌）
Phyllis Rodriguez: We are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship.	菲莉斯·罗德里格斯：我们今天站在这里 是因为 我们拥有大多数认为的 不寻常的一份友情。
And it is.	而且它的确是这样。
And yet, it feels natural to us now.	现在，我们已经感觉很自然了。
I first learned that my son had been in the World Trade Center on the morning of September 11th, 2001.	我起初知道 我的儿子在2001年9月11日早晨 进入了世贸大厦。
We didn't know if he had perished yet until 36 hours later.	我们不知道 是否他还活着 直到事发36小时之后。
At the time, we knew that it was political.	那时， 我知道这是政治原因。
We were afraid of what our country was going to do in the name of our son -- my husband, Orlando, and I and our family.	我们担心国家会以我们孩子的名义 要做的那些事-- 我丈夫，奥兰多，和我以及我们一家。
And when I saw it -- and yet, through the shock, the terrible shock, and the terrible explosion in our lives, literally, we were not vengeful.	当我看到的时候-- 可是，经历了这种震惊， 可怕的震惊， 真正意义上的生活中可怕的震惊， 我们并没有心存报复。
And a couple of weeks later when Zacarias Moussaoui was indicted on six counts of conspiracy to commit terrorism, and the U.S. government called for a death penalty for him, if convicted, my husband and I spoke out in opposition to that, publicly.	几周之后 当撒迦利亚·穆萨维被指控为 六个密谋制造恐怖袭击的份子之一， 同时美国政府对他将判决 死刑，如果定罪的话， 我丈夫和我 也用完全不同的角度，群众的角度讨论过这些。
Through that and through human rights groups, we were brought together with several other victims' families.	通过这些 也通过人权组织， 我们走到了一起 还有一些其他受害者家属。
When I saw Aicha in the media, coming over when her son was indicted, and I thought, "What a brave woman.	当我在媒体上看到艾莎， 同时她的儿子被指控的时候， 我就想，"多么勇敢的女人。
Someday I want to meet that woman when I'm stronger."	当我更坚强的时候，我想见见这个女人。"
I was still in deep grief; I knew I didn't have the strength.	我仍旧沉浸在悲伤中， 我知道我不够坚强。
I knew I would find her someday, or we would find each other.	我知道有一天我能找到她， 也许我们会找到彼此。
Because, when people heard that my son was a victim, I got immediate sympathy.	因为，当人们听说我儿子是受害者的时候， 我立即得到了同情。
But when people learned what her son was accused of, she didn't get that sympathy.	但是当人们听说 她的儿子是被指控的时候， 她却没有得到同情。
But her suffering is equal to mine.	但是她和我一样的痛苦。
So we met in November 2002, and Aicha will now tell you how that came about.	于是我们在2002年11月相遇了。 接下来艾莎会告诉你们 事情是怎么发生的。
Aicha el-Wafi: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.	艾莎·瓦非：下午好，女士们先生们。
I am the mother of Zacarias Moussaoui.	我是撒迦利亚·穆萨维的母亲。
And I asked the Organization of Human Rights to put me in touch with the parents of the victims.	我请求 人权组织 让我和那些受害者的父母取得联系。
So they introduced me to five families.	于是他们就把我介绍给 5个家庭。
And I saw Phyllis, and I watched her.	当我遇见菲莉斯的时候，我注意到她。
She was the only mother in the group.	她是这个团体中唯一的母亲。
The others were brothers, sisters.	其他都是兄弟，姐妹。
And I saw in her eyes that she was a mother, just like me.	当我从她的目光中看出 她是个母亲，和我一样的母亲。
I suffered a lot as a mother.	作为一个母亲我也遭受了很多悲痛。
I was married when I was 14.	我14岁结的婚。
I lost a child when I was 15, a second child when I was 16.	15岁失去了第一个孩子， 16岁失去了第二个孩子。
So the story with Zacarias was too much really.	所以撒迦利亚的事对我真的意味太多。
And I still suffer, because my son is like he's buried alive.	我仍旧还在悲痛中， 因为我的儿子 就像被活埋了一样。
I know she really cried for her son.	我了解她的确为她儿子痛哭不已。
But she knows where he is.	但是她起码知道他在哪里。
My son, I don't know where he is.	我儿子，我甚至不知道他在何方。
I don't know if he's alive. I don't know if he's tortured.	我不知道他是否还活着。我不知道他是否被虐待过。
I don't know what happened to him.	我不知道在他身上发生了什么。
So that's why I decided to tell my story, so that my suffering is something positive for other women.	这也是为什么我决定讲述我的故事的原因， 以便我的痛苦能对其他妇女有些正面的帮助。
For all the women, all the mothers that give life, you can give back, you can change.	为了所有的妇女，所有赐予生命的母亲， 你们可以恢复， 你们可以改变。
It's up to us women, because we are women, because we love our children.	这取决于我们妇女， 因为我们是女人， 因为我们爱我们的孩子。
We must be hand-in-hand and do something together.	我们一定要联手起来 一起做一些事。
It's not against women, it's for us, for us women, for our children.	这事不是为了反对妇女， 这是为了我们，为了我们妇女， 为了我们的孩子们。
I talk against violence, against terrorism.	我反对暴力，反对恐怖主义。
I go to schools to talk to young, Muslim girls so they don't accept to be married against their will very young.	我去学校 和那些年轻的穆斯林女孩交谈 所以在她们年少时不会接受违背她们意志的婚姻。
So if I can save one of the young girls, and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as I did, well this is something good.	如果我能拯救一个年轻的女孩， 从而避免她们过早结婚而像我一样遭受这么多， 起码这就是好的事情。
This is why I'm here in front of you.	这就是为什么我在这里站在你们面前。
PR: I would like to say that I have learned so much from Aicha, starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members -- which was a very private meeting with security, because it was November 2002, and, frankly, we were afraid of the super-patriotism of that time in the country -- those of us family members.	菲莉斯·罗德里格斯：我想说的是 我从艾莎这里学到了很多， 回首我们初次见面的那天 还有其他家庭的成员-- 这是个受保护的很私下的聚会， 因为当时是2002年11月， 老实说，我们担心国内的那些极端（左翼）爱国主义者-- 那些我们家族成员。
But we were all so nervous.	但是我们都很紧张。
"Why does she want to meet us?"	"为什么她想见我们？"
And then she was nervous.	同时她也很紧张。
"Why did we want to meet her?"	"为什么我们想见她？"
What did we want from each other?	我们彼此间想得到些什么？
Before we knew each others' names, or anything, we had embraced and wept.	在我们了解其他人的姓名和其他一些事情之前， 我们已经哭着相互抱在一起。
Then we sat in a circle with support, with help, from people experienced in this kind of reconciliation.	接着我们坐成一个圈 在和解的环境下和那些经历过此事的人 互相扶持，互相帮助。
And Aicha started, and she said, "I don't know if my son is guilty or innocent, but I want to tell you how sorry I am for what happened to your families.	艾莎起的头 她讲述道， "我不知道我的儿子 是有罪还是无辜的， 但是我想告诉你们我有多么抱歉 对于那些发生在你们家庭里的事。
I know what it is to suffer, and I feel that if there is a crime, a person should be tried fairly and punished."	我知道这是很痛苦， 同时我以为，如果有人犯罪的话， 那人应该被公平的对待和定罪。"
But she reached out to us in that way, and it was, I'd like to say, it was an ice-breaker.	但她是用这种方式与我们感同身受。 这是，我想说，这是一种冰释前嫌的方式。
And what happened then is we all told our stories, and we all connected as human beings.	接下去发生的是，我们全都讲述了自己的故事， 我们作为平等人互相交流着。
By the end of the afternoon -- it was about three hours after lunch -- we'd felt as if we'd known each other forever.	在下午结束的时候-- 大概是午餐之后3个小时-- 我们感觉就好像我们永远了解彼此一样。
Now what I learned from her, is a woman, not only who could be so generous under these present circumstances and what it was then, and what was being done to her son, but the life she's had.	我从她身上学到的， 是作为一个女人，可以变的如此宽容 不但在当时的情况下 那时所发生的， 和她孩子所经历过的遭遇， 而且是她所经历的人生。
I never had met someone with such a hard life, from such a totally different culture and environment from my own.	从我经历过的不同文化和环境， 我从来没有见到过， 有如此艰苦命运的人。
And I feel that we have a special connection, which I value very much.	我觉得 我们有着 一种特别的联系， 一种我很珍惜的联系。
And I think it's all about being afraid of the other, but making that step and then realizing, "Hey, this wasn't so hard.	我想这都是因为 互相之间的关心， 但是当做到这地步 就会意识到，"啊，这不是那么难。
Who else can I meet that I don't know, or that I'm so different from?"	我还能遇见一些我所不了解的人， 或是和我与众不同的人吗？
So, Aicha, do you have a couple of words for conclusion?	所以，艾莎， 你有要总结的 话吗？
Because our time is up.	因为我们的时间快到了。
AW: I wanted to say that we have to try to know other people, the other.	艾莎·瓦非：我想说 我们要尝试着了解其他人，其他事，
You have to be generous, and your hearts must be generous, your mind must be generous.	你要变得大度， 同时你的心境也必须变得宽容， 你的想法必须变得大度。
You must be tolerant.	你要学会宽恕。
You have to fight against violence.	你不得不与暴力作斗争。
And I hope that someday we'll all live together in peace and respecting each other.	我希望有一天我们会生活在一起 和平尊重其他人。
This is what I wanted to say.	这就是我想说的。
About a year ago, I asked myself a question: "Knowing what I know, why am I not a vegetarian?"	大概在一年前左右 我问了我自己一个问题 "我明明知道这些资讯， 为什么我不是个素食者？"
After all, I'm one of the green guys: I grew up with hippie parents in a log cabin.	毕竟我支持环保，热爱绿概念 和嬉皮父母在小木屋里长大
I started a site called TreeHugger -- I care about this stuff.	我开了一个叫 Treehugger 的网站 － 抱树网 我很关心这些东西
I knew that eating a mere hamburger a day can increase my risk of dying by a third.	我知道光是每天吃一个汉堡 就能增加三分之一的死亡几率
Cruelty: I knew that the 10 billion animals we raise each year for meat are raised in factory farm conditions that we, hypocritically, wouldn't even consider for our own cats, dogs and other pets.	我知道每年我们养殖100亿动物 就为了他们身上的肉 而这些动物生活的那种工厂环境 是我们根本无法想象自己的 猫，或是宠物可以居住的
Environmentally, meat, amazingly, causes more emissions than all of transportation combined: cars, trains, planes, buses, boats, all of it.	就环境来说，肉品排放的二氧化碳 神奇的 比所有交通工具的排放量还大 汽车、火车
And beef production uses 100 times the water that most vegetables do.	制造肉所使用的水 是蔬菜的一百倍
I also knew that I'm not alone.	我也知道我并不孤单
We as a society are eating twice as much meat as we did in the 50s.	整个社会 现在我们所吃的肉 足足比50年代多了两倍
So what was once the special little side treat now is the main, much more regular.	曾经我们当作特别的小食 现在却成了我们的日常主食
So really, any of these angles should have been enough to convince me to go vegetarian.	说真的，以任何角度来说 都应该足以让我成为素食者
Yet, there I was -- chk, chk, chk -- tucking into a big old steak.	但我还是嗯，嗯，嗯 被一块巨大的牛排包围着
So why was I stalling?	我到底在迟疑什么？
I realized that what I was being pitched was a binary solution.	我发觉那是因为这是因为 我把它当作一个二分法的问题
It was either you're a meat eater or you're a vegetarian, and I guess I just wasn't quite ready.	你需要决定 你到底是吃肉还是吃素 我想我实在没做好心理准备
Imagine your last hamburger.	想象最后的一个汉堡
So my common sense, my good intentions, were in conflict with my taste buds.	于是乎我的常识 我的用意良善 和我的味蕾产生了矛盾
And I'd commit to doing it later, and not surprisingly, later never came.	我总是想着之后再做 之后却永远不会来
Sound familiar?	听起来很熟悉吗？
So I wondered, might there be a third solution?	于是我想着， 或许应该有第三种选择？
And I thought about it, and I came up with one.	经过思考以后，我想出了一个
I've been doing it for the last year, and it's great.	去年我便这么实行，感觉很好
It's called weekday veg.	叫做周间素食
The name says it all: Nothing with a face Monday through Friday.	事如其名 礼拜一到五不吃任何有脸的东西
On the weekend, your choice.	周末，自由选择
Simple.	如此简单
If you want to take it to the next level, remember, the major culprits in terms of environmental damage and health are red and processed meats.	如果你想更进一步 记得红肉和经处理的肉类 是今日破坏环境和健康的 罪魁祸首
So you want to swap those out with some good, sustainably harvested fish.	如果你想要和它们说不 你也可以改为食用一些以不破坏环境平衡养殖的鱼类
It's structured, so it ends up being simple to remember, and it's okay to break it here and there.	有了这样的规律 就比较容易记得 偶尔犯戒也没关系
After all, cutting five days a week is cutting 70 percent of your meat intake.	毕竟五天不吃肉 是减少七成的肉
The program has been great, weekday veg.	我很喜欢周间素食这个点子
My footprint's smaller, I'm lessening pollution, I feel better about the animals, I'm even saving money.	我的碳足迹小了 我减低了污染 我对动物感觉好些了 甚至还存了一点钱
Best of all, I'm healthier, I know that I'm going to live longer, and I've even lost a little weight.	最棒的是，我更健康了 我知道我会更长命 甚至还瘦了一些
So, please ask yourselves, for your health, for your pocketbook, for the environment, for the animals: What's stopping you from giving weekday veg a shot?	于是，请大家今天自问 为了你的健康 你的财富 为了环境和动物 为什么不试试做个周间的素食者呢？
After all, if all of us ate half as much meat, it would be like half of us were vegetarians.	如果我们所有人都少吃 一半的肉 那就像我们之中有一半人 是素食者一样。
Thank you.	谢谢大家
I'm going to start with a little story.	我来先讲一个小故事
So, I grew up in this neighborhood. When I was 15 years old, I went from being what I think was a strapping young athlete, over four months, slowly wasting away until I was basically a famine victim with an unquenchable thirst.	我在附近的地区长大，我15岁时 在四个月里，我从一个自认为的体格强壮的年轻运动员 逐渐消瘦 直到变成一个饥民 有着永不满足的饥渴感
I had basically digested away my body.	基本上我已经消化光了自己的身体
And this all came to a head when I was on a backpacking trip, my first one ever actually, on Old Rag Mountain in West Virginia, and was putting my face into puddles of water and drinking like a dog.	情况严重到，在我的一次背包旅途中 实际上是我的第一次，在西弗吉尼亚的 Old Rag Mountain 我像狗一样 把脸埋在水坑里喝水
That night, I was taken into the emergency room and diagnosed as a type 1 diabetic in full-blown ketoacidosis.	那天晚上，我被带到急救室 被诊断患有I型糖尿病导致的酮酸中毒
And I recovered, thanks to the miracles of modern medicine, insulin and other things, and gained all my weight back and more.	后来我康复了，感谢现代医学的奇迹 胰岛素和其它东西， 我的体重全恢复了，还有些增长
And something festered inside me after this happened.	这些事情发生后， 我心里开始有了些想法
What I thought about was, what caused the diabetes?	当时我想的是， 糖尿病是什么导致的?
You see, diabetes is an autoimmune disease where your body fights itself, and at the time people thought that somehow maybe exposure to a pathogen had triggered my immune system to fight the pathogen and then kill the cells that make insulin.	你们知道， 糖尿病是一种免疫疾病 你的身体攻击正常细胞，当时人们认为 可能在一些情况下，人体接触到病原体 免疫系统被激活，与病原体作斗争 结果杀死了制造胰岛素的细胞
And this is what I thought for a long period of time, and that's in fact what medicine and people have focused on quite a bit, the microbes that do bad things.	对于这个解释，我思考了很长一段时间 这也是医学和大众主要关注的理论 微生物是有害的
And that's where I need my assistant here now.	现在我需要我的助理帮忙
You may recognize her.	你们可能认得她
So, I went yesterday, I apologize, I skipped a few of the talks, and I went over to the National Academy of Sciences building, and they sell toys, giant microbes.	其实昨天，很抱歉，我没来听一些演讲 我去了一下国家科学院的大楼 楼里有人在卖玩具，巨型微生物
And here we go!	接好了!
So you have caught flesh-eating disease if you caught that one.	如果你接住那一个，你就已经感染了食肉细菌
I gotta get back out my baseball ability here.	显然我的棒球技能已经不比当年了
So, unfortunately or not surprisingly, most of the microbes they sell at the National Academy building are pathogens.	所以，不幸的是，也不让人惊奇的是 他们在国家科学院大楼卖的微生物玩具是病原菌
Everybody focuses on the things that kill us, and that's what I was focusing on.	大家都只关注致死的微生物 那也是我当时研究的重点
And it turns out that we are covered in a cloud of microbes, and those microbes actually do us good much of the time, rather than killing us.	实际上我们正在被厚厚的一层微生物覆盖 而多数情况下, 这些微生物对我们是有益的 而不是有害致死的
And so, we've known about this for some period of time.	而且我们认识到这一点，已经有一段时间了
People have used microscopes to look at the microbes that cover us, I know you're not paying attention to me, but ...	人们用显微镜观察覆盖人体的微生物 我知道你没在听我讲话，但是……
The microbes that cover us.	这些覆盖人体的微生物
And if you look at them in the microscope, you can see that we actually have 10 times as many cells of microbes on us as we have human cells.	如果你用显微镜观察它们 你会发现在我们身上的微生物细胞 是人体细胞数量的10倍
There's more mass in the microbes than the mass of our brain.	我们身上微生物的质量比我们大脑的质量还重
We are literally a teeming ecosystem of microorganisms.	我们的身体实际上是一个丰富的微生物生态系统
And unfortunately, if you want to learn about the microorganisms, just looking at them in a microscope is not sufficient.	不幸的是, 如果你想要研究微生物 仅仅用显微镜观察是不够的
And so we just heard about the DNA sequencing.	我们刚才听到了DNA测序
It turns out that one of the best ways to look at microbes and to understand them is to look at their DNA.	事实证明研究和理解微生物的最好方法之一 是研究它们的DNA
And that's what I've been doing for 20 years, using DNA sequencing, collecting samples from various places, including the human body, reading the DNA sequence and then using that DNA sequencing to tell us about the microbes that are in a particular place.	这正是我20年来一直在做的事 我通过DNA测序来分析从不同来源采来的样品 其中包括人体样本，测出DNA序列 然后从这些DNA序列中了解 在特定位置的微生物
And what's amazing, when you use this technology, for example, looking at humans, we're not just covered in a sea of microbes.	神奇的是，在使用这个技术时 比如说，研究人体系统 我们不只是被覆盖在数量众多的微生物中
There are thousands upon thousands of different kinds of microbes on us.	我们身上的微生物种类也是成千上万的
We have millions of genes of microbes in our human microbiome covering us.	我们覆盖的微生物种群 有数百类个基因
And so this microbial diversity differs between people, and what people have been thinking about in the last 10, maybe 15 years is, maybe these microbes, this microbial cloud in and on us, and the variation between us, may be responsible for some of the health and illness differences between us.	而且每个人身上的微生物种群各不相同 在过去的10或15年里，人们一直在思考 也许这些微生物 这些人体上覆盖的微生物云 以及人和人之间的微生物差异 对人类的健康和疾病的个体差异有重要影响
And that comes back to the diabetes story I was telling you.	这就回到了我之前和你们说过的糖尿病的故事
It turns out that people now think that one of the triggers for type 1 diabetes is not fighting a pathogen, but is in fact trying to -- miscommunicating with the microbes that live in and on you.	结果是人们现在认为 一型糖尿病诱因之一并不是与病原体的战争 却是因为它其实在试着 与身体内外的微生物传达错误的信息
And somehow maybe the microbial community that's in and on me got off, and then this triggered some sort of immune response and led to me killing the cells that make insulin in my body.	然后这些在我身体内外的微生物群落不知怎么地消失了 这触发了某种免疫反应 让我的身体消灭了自身的 制造胰岛素的细胞
And so what I want to tell you about for a few minutes is, what people have learned using DNA sequencing techniques in particular, to study the microbial cloud that lives in and on us.	所以在接下来几分钟我想和你们分享的是 人们通过DNA测序技术了解到哪些内容 尤其是对于身体内外的 微生物云
And I want to tell you a story about a personal project.	我想和你们讲一个有关我个人研究课题的故事
My first personal experience with studying the microbes on the human body actually came from a talk that I gave, right around the corner from here at Georgetown.	我自己的第一次研究人体微生物的经历 实际上就来自 我在街对角的乔治城大学做的一个演讲
I gave a talk, and a family friend who happened to be the Dean of Georgetown Medical School was at the talk, and came up to me afterwards saying, they were doing a study of ileal transplants in people.	我在那做了个演讲，而乔治城大学医学院的院长 刚好是我的一个家族方面的朋友，去听了演讲 会后他上来和我说，他们正在 做人体回肠移植方面的研究
And they wanted to look at the microbes after the transplants.	他们想要研究移植后的微生物分布情况
And so I started a collaboration with this person, Michael Zasloff and Thomas Fishbein, to look at the microbes that colonized these ilea after they were transplanted into a recipient.	所以我开始和 Michael Zasloff 和 Thomas Fishbein 合作 观察回肠移植后微生物繁殖情况
And I can tell you all the details about the microbial study that we did there, but the reason I want to tell you this story is something really striking that they did at the beginning of this project.	我可以和你们聊这项研究的所有细节 但是我想给你们讲这个故事的原因是 他们在这个课题开始阶段 做了特别惊人的尝试
They take the donor ileum, which is filled with microbes from a donor and they have a recipient who might have a problem with their microbial community, say Crohn's disease, and they sterilized the donor ileum.	他们取得捐赠者的回肠，里边充满捐赠者身上的微生物 同时有受赠者，他们体内的微生物菌群可能出了些问题 比如说，克罗恩病患者 然后他们消毒捐赠者的回肠
Cleaned out all the microbes, and then put it in the recipient.	清除所有的微生物，然后移植到受赠者体内
They did this because this was common practice in medicine, even though it was obvious that this was not a good idea.	他们这样做，因为这是医学上的通用做法 即便它显然 不是一个好主意
And fortunately, in the course of this project, the transplant surgeons and the other people decided, forget common practice. We have to switch.	幸好在这个研究过程中 移植外科医生和其他成员决定 抛开通用做法，我们必须换个办法
So they actually switched to leaving some of the microbial community in the ileum. They leave the microbes with the donor, and theoretically that might help the people who are receiving this ileal transplant.	所以他们留下回肠中的部分微生物菌群 他们留下了捐赠者体内的微生物 理论上说，这可能 对接受回肠移植的人有益
And so, people -- this is a study that I did now.	所以，大家，这就是我这些年来所做的研究
In the last few years there's been a great expansion in using DNA technology to study the microbes in and on people.	在过去几年中，通过DNA技术来观察人体内外的微生物研究 有了长足进展
There's something called the Human Microbiome Project that's going on in the United States, and MetaHIT going on in Europe, and a lot of other projects.	人类微生物菌落项目 正在美国展开 在欧洲, 有人类肠道宏基因组计划和很多其它研究
And when people have done a variety of studies, they have learned things such as, when a baby is born, during vaginal delivery you get colonized by the microbes from your mother.	当他们做了各种研究 他们发现了各种现象，比如一个婴儿 从产道出生时 母体的微生物菌群会移植到婴儿上
There are risk factors associated with cesarean sections, some of those risk factors may be due to mis-colonization when you carve a baby out of its mother rather than being delivered through the birth canal.	剖腹产有一些风险 其中有可能包括错误移植 当婴儿经由剖腹被取出母体 而非从产道生出时, 这有可能发生
And a variety of other studies have shown that the microbial community that lives in and on us helps in development of the immune system, helps in fighting off pathogens, helps in our metabolism, and determining our metabolic rate, probably determines our odor, and may even shape our behavior in a variety of ways.	许多不同研究显示 在我们身体和表面的微生物 对免疫系统的发育有益 帮助击退病原体，促进新陈代谢 决定我们的代谢速度 可能决定我们的体味 还可能在很多方面塑造我们的行为
And so, these studies have documented or suggested out of a variety of important functions for the microbial community, this cloud, the non-pathogens that live in and on us.	因此这些研究证明或者推断了 这些微生物群落的各种重要功能 这些在我们体内和表面生活的非病原体，这层"云"的功能
And one area that I think is very interesting, which many of you may have now that we've thrown microbes into the crowd, is something that I would call "germophobia."	有个领域我觉得很有意思 就是既然刚才我们刚扔了一群菌到人群中 你们中间有许多人也许有这个心态, 我叫它"恐菌症"
So people are really into cleanliness, right?	人们真的很重视清洁, 是吗？
We have antibiotics in our kitchen counters, people are washing every part of them all of the time, we pump antibiotics into our food, into our communities, we take antibiotics excessively.	我们的厨房桌台上有抗菌用品 人们时时刻刻都在洗身上的每个部分 抗生素大量地流入我们的食物和居住环境中 我们无节制地滥用抗生素
And killing pathogens is a good thing if you're sick, but we should understand that when we pump chemicals and antibiotics into our world, that we're also killing the cloud of microbes that live in and on us.	如果你生病了，杀死病原体是件好事 但我们要知道，当我们把化工产品 和抗生素注入我们的生活中时，我们也在杀死 生活在我们体内和表面的微生物云
And excessive use of antibiotics, in particular in children, has been shown to be associated with, again, risk factors for obesity, for autoimmune diseases, for a variety of problems that are probably due to disruption of the microbial community.	研究发现，过度使用抗生素，尤其在儿童身上 和肥胖、自身免疫疾病 以及其它各种健康问题都有关 因为抗生素破坏了 人体的微生物群落
So the microbial community can go wrong whether we want it to or not, or we can kill it with antibiotics, but what can we do to restore it?	所以微生物群落可能会出问题 不论我们喜不喜欢 或者我们可以用抗生素杀死这些微生物 但是我们怎样才能重建这些群落?
I'm sure many people here have heard about probiotics.	我相信在座的许多人听说过益生菌群
Probiotics are one thing that you can try and do to restore the microbial community that is in and on you.	人们可以尝试用益生菌来重建 体内和体表的微生物群落
And they definitely have been shown to be effective in some cases.	已经有一些使用益生菌的成功案例
There's a project going on at UC Davis where people are using probiotics to try and treat, prevent, necrotizing enterocolitis in premature infants.	在加州大学戴维斯分校有一项研究 人们尝试用益生菌来治疗和预防 早产儿的坏死性小肠结肠炎
Premature infants have real problems with their microbial community.	早产儿身上有不少和微生物群落相关的问题
And it may be that probiotics can help prevent the development of this horrible necrotizing enterocolitis in these premature infants.	也许益生菌可以帮助预防 早产儿罹患 这种可怕的坏死性小肠结肠炎
But probiotics are sort of a very, very simple solution.	但是益生菌是一个非常，非常简单的解决方法
Most of the pills that you can take or the yogurts that you can eat have one or two species in them, maybe five species in them, and the human community is thousands upon thousands of species.	许多你可以吃的药丸或酸奶 含有一或两种，还可能五种细菌 而人体微生物群落包含数千个菌种
So what can we do to restore our microbial community when we have thousands and thousands of species on us?	所以我们怎样才能重建我们的微生物群落 在我们身上有数千种微生物的情况下？
Well, one thing that animals seem to do is, they eat poo -- coprophagia.	好吧，动物们所做的一件事是 它们吃类便——食粪症
And it turns out that many veterinarians, old school veterinarians in particular, have been doing something called "poo tea," not booty, but poo tea, to treat colic and other ailments in horses and cows and things like that, where you make tea from the poo from a healthy individual animal and you feed it to a sick animal.	实际上许多兽医 尤其是老派的兽医 一直在用一种叫"粪便茶"的东西 不是屁屁，而是粪便茶来治疗 马和牛的腹绞痛和其它类似疾病 就是用健康动物的粪便做成茶 然后喂给生病的动物喝
Although, unless you have a fistulated cow with a big hole in its side, and you can put your hand into its rumen, it's hard to imagine that the delivery of microbes directly into the mouth and through the entire top of the digestive tract is the best delivery system, so you may have heard in people they are now doing fecal transplants, where rather than delivering a couple of probiotic microbes through the mouth, they are delivering a community of probiotics, a community of microbes from a healthy donor, through the other end.	但是，除非你有一头身上装了研究反刍消化装置的牛，肚子一侧开了个大洞 你可以把手伸进它的瘤胃 很难想象从嘴巴经过整个消化道上部 传输微生物 是最好的传输方式 所以你们可能听说过有人在做 粪便移植，与其将少数益生菌种 从口腔传入体内 他们将一个益生菌群 来自一个健康的捐赠者的整个微生物群落 从消化道的另一端送入体内
And this has turned out to be very effective in fighting certain intransigent infectious diseases like Clostridium difficile infections that can stay with people for years and years and years.	事实表明这种做法 对于某些顽固的传染病很有疗效 比如可以在人体内存活多年的 艰难梭状芽孢杆菌感染
Transplants of the feces, of the microbes from the feces, from a healthy donor has actually been shown to cure systemic C. dif infections in some people.	粪便移植 从而实现健康捐赠者的粪便中微生物的移植 事实上已经有一些成功治愈系统性艰难梭状芽孢杆菌感染的案例
Now what these transplants, these fecal transplants, or the poo tea suggest to me, and many other people have come up with this same idea, is that the microbial community in and on us, it's an organ.	这些新的移植方法，这些粪便移植 或是粪便茶给我还有很多人以启示 我们有了共同的想法 就是这些在我们体内外的微生物群落，是一个器官
We should view it as a functioning organ, part of ourselves.	我们应该把它看成一个有功能的器官，看成人体的一部分
We should treat it carefully and with respect, and we do not want to mess with it, say by C-sections or by antibiotics or excessive cleanliness, without some real good justification.	我们应该认真对待它，尊重它 我们不应该在不必要的情况下破坏它的平衡 比如采用剖腹产，使用抗生素 或过度清洁
And what the DNA sequencing technologies are allowing people to do now is do detailed studies of, say, 100 patients who have Crohn's disease and 100 people who don't have Crohn's disease.	因为用DNA测序技术，人们可以做详细的研究 就像比较100个克罗恩病患者 和100个没有克罗恩病的人
Or 100 people who took antibiotics when they were little, and 100 people who did not take antibiotics.	或者比较100个在小时候服用过抗生素的人 和100个小时候没服用过抗生素的人
And we can now start to compare the community of microbes and their genes and see if there are differences.	我们现在可以开始比较他们的微生物群落 和它们的基因来看是否存在差异
And eventually we may be able to understand if they're not just correlative differences, but causative.	最终我们可能会弄明白，这些人群间的差异是否 不仅仅是相关的，还有因果关系
Studies in model systems like mouse and other animals are also helping do this, but people are now using these technologies because they've gotten very cheap, to study the microbes in and on a variety of people.	小鼠和其它动物实验模型系统 也正帮助我们研究，但人们现在使用 DNA测序技术是因为成本已经很低 如果要研究不同人体内外的微生物的话
So, in wrapping up, what I want to tell you about is, I didn't tell you a part of the story of coming down with diabetes.	所以，总的来说，我想告诉你们的是 我并没有告诉你们我患糖尿病的故事
It turns out that my father was an M.D., actually studied hormones. I told him many times that I was tired, thirsty, not feeling very good.	实际上我父亲是个医生 他研究内分泌激素。很多次我和他说 我又累，又渴，感觉不舒服
And he shrugged it off, I think he either thought I was just complaining a lot, or it was the typical M.D. "nothing can be wrong with my children."	他耸耸肩，我想，他要么认为 我只是爱抱怨，要么 是一个医生认为"我家的小孩不会生病"的心态
We even went to the International Society of Endocrinology meeting as family in Quebec.	我们甚至举家前往魁北克 参加国际内分泌学学会
And I was getting up every five minutes to pee, and drinking everybody's water at the table, and I think they all thought I was a druggie.	我每五分钟就要起来尿尿 吃饭时要喝完每个人的水 我想，他们可能都认为我嗑药了
But the reason I'm telling you this is that the medical community, my father as an example, sometimes doesn't see what's right in front of their eyes.	但我和你们说这个故事的原因是 在医学界，以我的父亲为例 有时候看不到眼前发生的事
The microbial cloud, it is right in front of us.	这层微生物云，就在我们眼前
We can't see it most of the time. It's invisible.	很多时候我们看不到它。它是隐形的
They're microbes. They're tiny.	它们是微生物，微小的生物。
But we can see them through their DNA, we can see them through the effects that they have on people.	但是我们可以通过它们的DNA看到它们 我们可以通过它们对人类的影响看到它们
And what we need now is to start thinking about this microbial community in the context of everything in human medicine.	我们现在需要做的是 开始思考在人类医学每个方面 微生物群落的作用
It doesn't mean that it affects every part of us, but it might.	这并不意味着它会影响我们的每一部分 但是有这个可能性
What we need is a full field guide to the microbes that live in and on people, so that we can understand what they're doing to our lives.	我们需要一份人类体内和表面的微生物的实地指南 这样我们才能了解 它们对我们生活的影响
We are them. They are us.	我们就是它们。它们就是我们
Thank you.	谢谢
I'd like to start tonight by something completely different, asking you to join me by stepping off the land and jumping into the open ocean for a moment.	今晚，我想以一种截然不同的方式作为开始， 请你们和我一起暂时离开陆地， 跳到广阔的大洋中。
90 percent of the living space on the planet is in the open ocean, and it's where life -- the title of our seminar tonight -- it's where life began.	地球生物圈90%的空间在大洋中， 而那就是生命——我们今晚研讨会的主题——那是生命开始的地方。
And it's a lively and a lovely place, but we're rapidly changing the oceans with our -- not only with our overfishing, our irresponsible fishing, our adding of pollutants like fertilizer from our cropland, but also, most recently, with climate change, and Steve Schneider, I'm sure, will be going into greater detail on this.	这是一个充满活力的可爱的地方， 但却已经发生了巨大的变化—— 不仅仅是因为我们的过度捕捞，不负责任地捕鱼， 以及农田肥料产生的污染， 还有，最近以来，气候变化的威胁。 而史蒂夫·施耐德，我肯定，他将就这个问题做更详细的解读。
Now, as we continue to tinker with the oceans, more and more reports are predicting that the kinds of seas that we're creating will be conducive to low-energy type of animals, like jellyfish and bacteria.	现在，如果我们继续这样胡乱地"修补"海洋， 越来越多的报告预言，我们正在使海洋 变得更适合低能量类型的动物，如水母和细菌。
And this might be the kind of seas we're headed for.	这也许就是我们将要面对的海洋。
Now jellyfish are strangely hypnotic and beautiful, and you'll see lots of gorgeous ones at the aquarium on Friday, but they sting like hell, and jellyfish sushi and sashimi is just not going to fill you up.	水母很奇异，有催人入睡的魔力，也很美丽， 你们可以在周五的水族馆里看到许多更华丽的， 但它们的刺很可怕，而且水母寿司和水母"生鱼片" 也不够填饱你的肚子。
About 100 grams of jellyfish equals four calories.	100克水母大约等于四卡路里的热量。
So it may be good for the waistline, but it probably won't keep you satiated for very long.	因此，它或许有助于减小腰围， 但更可能让你时常忍饥挨饿。
And a sea that's just filled and teeming with jellyfish isn't very good for all the other creatures that live in the oceans, that is, unless you eat jellyfish.	而且一个只充满了水母的大海 对其他生活在其中的生物来讲也不是一件好事， 除非，有其他捕猎水母的动物存在。
And this is this voracious predator launching a sneak attack on this poor little unsuspecting jellyfish there, a by-the-wind sailor.	这就是一个贪婪的捕食者正在对这只可怜的，毫无察觉的， 顺水漂流的小水母发起攻击。
And that predator is the giant ocean sunfish, the Mola mola, whose primary prey are jellyfish.	而这个捕食者就是翻车鱼，Mola mola, 它们的主要食物就是水母。
This animal is in "The Guinness World Book of Records" for being the world's heaviest bony fish.	在吉尼斯世界纪录中， 这是世界上最重的硬骨鱼，
It reaches up to almost 5,000 pounds -- on a diet of jellyfish, primarily.	能达到5000磅重——而它们的食物主要就是水母。
And I think it's kind of a nice little cosmological convergence here that the Mola mola -- its common name is sunfish -- that its favorite food is the moon jelly.	这里有个我觉得是很微妙的宇宙学巧合， 翻车鱼，也称为太阳鱼， 它最喜欢的食物是月亮水母。
So it's kind of nice, the sun and the moon getting together this way, even if one is eating the other.	很有趣，太阳和月亮以这样的方式聚到一起了， 即使是吃与被吃的关系。
Now this is typically how you see sunfish, this is where they get their common name.	现在，这是你们看到翻车鱼的一般情形， 这就是它们被叫做太阳鱼的原因。
They like to sunbathe, can't blame them.	原来它们喜欢日光浴，不能责备它们。
They just lay out on the surface of the sea and most people think they're sick or lazy, but that's a typical behavior, they lie out and bask on the surface.	它们只是摆平了浮在海面上， 而大多数人以为这是病态或懒惰，但这只是一种典型的行为， 它们就是喜欢摆平了在海面上晒太阳。
Their other name, Mola mola, is -- it sounds Hawaiian, but it's actually Latin for millstone, and that's attributable to their roundish, very bizarre, cut-off shape.	它们的另一个名字，Mola mola，听起来像夏威夷语， 实际上却是拉丁语中"磨石"的意思， 这与它们那圆形，很怪异，似乎被切割了一样的形状有关。
It's as if, as they were growing, they just forgot the tail part.	它们，就好比，在生长的时候忘记了尾巴部分。
And that's actually what drew me to the Mola in the first place, was this terribly bizarre shape.	实际上，让我对翻车鱼感兴趣的首要原因， 就是这种即为奇怪的形状。
You know, you look at sharks, and they're streamlined, and they're sleek, and you look at tuna, and they're like torpedoes -- they just give away their agenda. They're about migration and strength, and then you look at the sunfish.	大家知道，鲨鱼，它们是流线型的，很优美， 还有金枪鱼，就像鱼雷一样， 它们没有日程安排，它们就代表着迁徙和力量， 然后你们再看看翻车鱼。
And this is just so elegantly mysterious, it's just -- it really kind of holds its cards a lot tighter than say, a tuna.	这实在是太匪夷所思了， 比起，譬如金枪鱼，它确实有点，优势差得太多了。
So I was just intrigued with what -- you know, what is this animal's story?	所以我就很好奇，这种动物有什么故事呢？
Well, as with anything in biology, nothing really makes sense except in the light of evolution.	好，在生物学上，没有什么是说得通的， 除非按进化论的角度。
The Mola's no exception.	翻车鱼也不例外。
They appeared shortly after the dinosaurs disappeared, 65 million years ago, at a time when whales still had legs, and they come from a rebellious little puffer fish faction -- oblige me a little Kipling-esque storytelling here.	它们是在恐龙消失之后很短时间内出现的， 6500万年前，那时候鲸类还长着脚， 它们从河豚类群中"反叛"了出来—— 请允许我在这里套用下吉卜林讲故事的方式。
Of course evolution is somewhat random, and you know, about 55 million years ago there was this rebellious little puffer fish faction that said, oh, the heck with the coral reefs -- we're going to head to the high seas.	当然，进化在某种程度上是随机的， 大约5500万年年前，这一支叛变的河豚， 说，噢，珊瑚礁又怎么样？ 我们要到远海去。
And lots of generations, lots of tweaking and torquing, and we turn our puffer into the Mola.	经过无数个世代，不断地调整和扭转， 河豚终于成了翻车鱼的样子。
You know, if you give Mother Nature enough time, that is what she will produce.	要知道，如果给自然母亲足够的时间，她就会创造出这样的东西来。
They look -- maybe they look kind of prehistoric and unfinished, abridged perhaps, but in fact, in fact they are the -- they vie for the top position of the most evolutionarily-derived fish in the sea, right up there with flat fish.	它们看起来，或许它们看起来 有点史前，有点"未完待续"，或者说有点简略， 但事实上，事实上它们—— 是海洋中进化最彻底的鱼类之一， 更彻底的还有比目鱼。
They're -- every single thing about that fish has been changed.	它们就是——鱼类变化过程中的每个细节。
And in terms of fishes -- fishes appeared 500 million years ago, and they're pretty modern, just 50 million years ago, so -- so interestingly, they give away their ancestry as they develop.	说到鱼类， 鱼类出现在5亿年前，而它们出现得相当晚， 大概5千万年前，所以， 有趣的是，它们在发展过程中抛弃了祖先遗传下来的东西。
They start as little eggs, and they're in "The Guinness World Book of Records" again for having the most number of eggs of any vertebrate on the planet.	它们从细小的卵开始， 再次进入"吉尼斯世界纪录"， 它们是世界上产卵最多的脊椎动物。
A single four-foot female had 300 million eggs, can carry 300 million eggs in her ovaries -- imagine -- and they get to be over 10 feet long. Imagine what a 10 foot one has.	一只四英尺长的雌鱼能产3亿颗卵， 想想看，能在卵巢里储存3亿颗卵， 它们能长到10英尺，想象下10英尺的鱼能产多少卵。
And from that little egg, they pass through this spiky little porcupine fish stage, reminiscent of their ancestry, and develop -- this is their little adolescent stage.	从这么小的卵， 它们发育成类似这种六斑刺魨的阶段，让人想起它们的祖先， 再发育，这是它们的青少年阶段，
They school as adolescents, and become behemoth loners as adults.	它们在青少年阶段时聚集成群，但成年时却独来独往。
That's a little diver up there in the corner.	在角落里有个小小的潜水者。
They're in "The Guinness World Book of Records" again for being the vertebrate growth champion of the world.	它们再次登上"吉尼斯世界纪录"， 这次是作为世界脊椎动物的生长冠军。
From their little hatching size of their egg, into their little larval stage till they reach adulthood, they put on 600 million times an increase in weight.	从小小的卵，到幼鱼， 再到成年，它们的体重增加了6亿倍！
600 million. Now imagine if you gave birth to a little baby, and you had to feed this thing.	6亿。想象下如果你有了个小孩， 你喂养他，
That would mean that your child, you would expect it to gain the weight of six Titanics.	这意味着你的小孩，他会增肥六个泰坦尼克号的重量。
Now I don't know how you'd feed a child like that but -- we don't know how fast the Molas grow in the wild, but captive growth studies at the Monterey Bay Aquarium -- one of the first places to have them in captivity -- they had one that gained 800 lbs in 14 months.	我不知道你会怎么喂养这个小孩， 我们也不知到翻车鱼在野外究竟长得多快， 但对蒙特利湾水族馆中捕获的翻车鱼进行研究， 这是首次捕获到它们的地方之一， 其中一头在14个月里长了800磅。
I said, now, that's a true American.	我说，这是条真正的美国鱼。
So being a loner is a great thing, especially in today's seas, because schooling used to be salvation for fishes, but it's suicide for fishes now.	这些庞然大物都是孤独行者，特别是在现在的海洋里， 过去，聚集成群往往是鱼类躲避掠食的方式， 但现在这却无异于自杀。
But unfortunately Molas, even though they don't school, they still get caught in nets as by-catch.	不幸的是，翻车鱼尽管不集群， 它们仍会被作为副渔获物被捕捞上来。
If we're going to save the world from total jellyfish domination, then we've got to figure out what the jellyfish predators -- how they live their lives, like the Mola.	如果我们想避免整个世界被水母占据的景象， 我们就必须知道水母的捕食者， 像翻车鱼，是怎么生活的。
And unfortunately, they make up a large portion of the California by-catch -- up to 26 percent of the drift net.	很不幸，在加州漂网的副渔获物中， 翻车鱼占到了26%。
And in the Mediterranean, in the swordfish net fisheries, they make up up to 90 percent.	而在地中海，在旗鱼的捕捞中， 它们占副渔获物的九成。
So we've got to figure out how they're living their lives.	因此我们必须搞清楚它们是如何生活。
And how do you do that?	你会怎么做呢？
How do you do that with an animal -- very few places in the world.	这种动物只分布在少数几个地方。
This is an open ocean creature. It knows no boundaries -- it doesn't go to land.	这是个远洋物种。它们生活的环境没有边界，它们不会上陆地。
How do you get insight?	你会如何探寻其中奥秘？
How do you seduce an open ocean creature like that to spill its secrets?	你会如何诱使这样一种大洋生物透露它的秘密？
Well, there's some great new technology that has just recently become available, and it's just a boon for getting insight into open ocean animals.	一些伟大的新技术， 在最近刚刚出现， 为深入研究大洋的动物提供了便利。
And it's pictured right here, that little tag up there.	如图所示。那个小标签。
That little tag can record temperature, depth and light intensity, which is correlated with time, and from that we can get locations.	这个小标签能记录温度、深度和光强度， 并与时间相关，从这些数据我们就能确定位置。
And it can record this data for up to two years, and keep it in that tag, release at a pre-programmed time, float to the surface, upload all that data, that whole travelogue, to satellite, which relays it directly to our computers, and we've got that whole dataset. And we didn't even have -- we just had to tag the animal and then we went home and you know, sat at our desks.	它最多可以记录长达两年的数据， 将数据保存在标签里，并在预定的时间释放， 浮到海面，将所有的数据和整个的行程记录 传输到卫星，接着中转到我们的电脑上， 我们就可以得到整个的数据资料。 我们就只要给动物打上标签，然后回家坐在桌子旁。
So the great thing about the Mola is that when we put the tag on them -- if you look up here -- that's streaming off, that's right where we put the tag.	因此研究翻车鱼最重要的一步 就是放标签的时候，看这里， 有东西飘动的那边，那就是我们放标签的位置。
And it just so happens that's a parasite hanging off the Mola.	那就像挂在翻车鱼身上的寄生虫一样。
Molas are infamous for carrying tons of parasites.	翻车鱼以携带成吨的寄生虫而闻名。
They're just parasite hotels; even their parasites have parasites.	它们就是寄生虫的"酒店"，甚至它们的寄生虫也有寄生虫。
I think Donne wrote a poem about that.	我想多恩曾为此写过一首诗。
But they have 40 genera of parasites, and so we figured just one more parasite won't be too much of a problem.	它们携带有40个属的寄生虫， 我们想，就多一个寄生虫也没什么问题。
And they happen to be a very good vehicle for carrying oceanographic equipment.	而它们也是携带海洋科学设备的绝好工具，
They don't seem to mind, so far.	至少到目前，它们看起来并不介意。
So what are we trying to find out? We're focusing on the Pacific.	那么我们想发现什么呢？我们把焦点放在太平洋。
We're tagging on the California coast, and we're tagging over in Taiwan and Japan.	我们做标记的地点，从加州海岸，到台湾和日本。
And we're interested in how these animals are using the currents, using temperature, using the open ocean, to live their lives.	我们感兴趣的是这些动物是怎么利用海流， 利用温度和宽阔的海域，进行生活。
We'd love to tag in Monterey.	我们喜欢在蒙特利尔放标签。
Monterey is one of the few places in the world where Molas come in large numbers.	蒙特利尔是世界上少数几个有大规模翻车鱼出没的地方之一。
Not this time of year -- it's more around October.	不是这个时候——在十月左右更多。
And we'd love to tag here -- this is an aerial shot of Monterey -- but unfortunately, the Molas here end up looking like this because another one of our locals really likes Molas but in the wrong way.	我们喜欢在这里标记，这是空中俯瞰蒙特利尔的情景。 不幸的是翻车鱼最后的样子是这样。 因为另一位本地居民也喜欢翻车鱼，但方式不同。
The California sea lion takes the Molas as soon as they come into the bay, rips off their fins, fashions them into the ultimate Frisbee, Mola style, and then tosses them back and forth.	它们一进入湾内，就被加利福尼亚海狮抓住， 它们的鳍被撕掉，被当做大飞盘， 来回地扔来扔去。
And I'm not exaggerating, it is just -- and sometimes they don't eat them, it's just spiteful.	我没有夸张，这就是， 有时候它们并不吃翻车鱼，而仅仅是恶作剧。
And you know, the locals think it's terrible behavior, it's just horrible watching this happen, day after day.	你知道，这些"本地居民"不在乎自己的可怕行为， 一天有一天地看到这种情景实在让人感到恐怖。
The poor little Molas coming in, getting ripped to shreds, so we head down south, to San Diego.	可怜的小翻车鱼进来就被撕成碎片。 因此我们往南走，到圣迭戈。
Not so many California sea lions down there.	那里没有那么多的加利福尼亚海狮。
And the Molas there, you can find them with a spotter plane very easily, and they like to hang out under floating rafts of kelp.	你可以通过侦察机轻易地找到那里的翻车鱼， 它们喜欢在漂浮的大型褐藻下游荡。
And under those kelps -- this is why the Molas come there because it's spa time for the Molas there.	在这些海藻下——这也是翻车鱼来这里的原因—— 这是翻车鱼的疗养时间。
As soon as they get under those rafts of kelp, the exfoliating cleaner fish come.	一旦它们到达海藻下方，吃死皮的清洁鱼就赶来。
And they come and give the Molas -- you can see they strike this funny little position that says, "I'm not threatening, but I need a massage."	它们来给翻车鱼—— 你能看到它们敲打这个有趣的位置，说， "我不是要威胁你，但我需要按摩。"
And they'll put their fins out and their eyes go in the back of their head, and the fish come up and they just clean, clean, clean -- because the Molas, you know, there's just a smorgasbord of parasites.	它们伸出鳍，把眼睛缩回脑袋里， 鱼儿就上来，清洁，清洁，清洁—— 因为翻车鱼，就是个寄生虫自助餐厅。
And it's also a great place to go down south because the water's warmer, and the Molas are kind of friendly down there.	再往南走也是不错的地方， 因为水较温暖，那里的翻车鱼也似乎友好一些。
I mean what other kind of fish, if you approach it right, will say, "Okay, scratch me right there."	我是说相比其他种鱼类，如果你靠近的方式正确， 翻车鱼会说，"好的，来给我这里抓抓痒。"
You truly can swim up to a Mola -- they're very gentle -- and if you approach them right, you can give them a scratch and they enjoy it.	你真的可以游到翻车鱼身边，它们很温和， 如果你靠近得当，你就能给它们抓抓痒，它们会很享受。
So we've also tagged one part of the Pacific; we've gone over to another part of the Pacific, and we've tagged in Taiwan, and we tagged in Japan.	这样我们就在太平洋的这一部分放了标签， 我们还要去太平洋的另一部分， 我们在台湾做标记，在日本做标记。
And over in these places, the Molas are caught in set nets that line these countries.	在这些地方，翻车鱼会被沿海的固定渔网捕捞上来。
And they're not thrown back as by-catch, they're eaten.	它们并没有被当做副渔获物扔回去，而是被吃掉。
We were served a nine-course meal of Mola after we tagged.	有一条翻车鱼在做了标记后不久，就被做成菜招待我们。
Well, not the one we tagged!	呃，不是我们标记的那条！
And everything from the kidney, to the testes, to the back bone, to the fin muscle to -- I think that ís pretty much the whole fish -- is eaten.	从肾脏，到睾丸，到脊柱， 还有鱼鳍上的肌肉等几乎是鱼身上的所有东西，都可以吃。
So the hardest part of tagging, now, is after you put that tag on, you have to wait, months.	所以现在做标记最难的一部分， 就是做完标记之后，你必须等待数个月。
And you're just wondering, oh, I hope the fish is safe, I hope, I hope it's going to be able to actually live its life out during the course that the tag is recording.	然后你就得想，噢，希望那鱼平安无事。 我希望，希望它能够在标签记录的这段时间里 确确实实地在海洋里生活。
The tags cost 3500 dollars each, and then satellite time is another 500 dollars, so you're like, oh, I hope the tag is okay.	每个标签耗费3500美元，租用卫星再花500美元， 所以你要，哦，我希望标签也没事。
And so the waiting is really the hardest part.	所以等待的部分才是真正艰难的。
I'm going to show you our latest dataset.	我要给你们看下最近的数据。
And it hasn't been published, so it's totally privy information just for TED.	这还没有发表，完全是只提供给TED的私人信息。
And in showing you this, you know, when we're looking at this data, we're thinking, oh do these animals, do they cross the equator?	而且在展示的时候，当我们看这些数据， 我们在想，这些动物，它们有没有越过赤道？
Do they go from one side of the Pacific to the other?	它们是不是从太平洋的这边游到了另一边？
And we found that they kind of are homebodies.	然后我们发现它们其实有点居家男人的感觉。
They're not big migrators. This is their track: we deployed the tag off of Tokyo, and the Mola in one month kind of got into the Kuroshio Current off of Japan and foraged there.	它们不会大迁徙。这是它们的路线： 我们在东京附近做了标记，一个月之后， 它们似乎进入了日本附近的黑潮流域，在那里觅食。
And after four months, went up, you know, off of the north part of Japan.	而四个月后，它们到了日本的北部海域。
And that's kind of their home range.	这就是它们的活动范围。
Now that's important, though, because if there's a lot of fishing pressure, that population doesn't get replenished.	这一点很重要，因为如果那里渔业压力加大， 它们的数量就得不到补充。
So that's a very important piece of data.	因此这是个非常重要的数据。
But also what's important is that they're not slacker, lazy fish.	另一个重要的事情是它们并非好吃懒做者，
They're super industrious.	它们其实非常勤劳。
And this is a day in the life of a Mola, and if we -- they're up and down, and up and down, and up and down, and up and up and down, up to 40 times a day.	这是翻车鱼一天的生活， 它们游上游下，游上游下，游上游下…… 一天几乎要40次。
As the sun comes up, you see in the blue, they start their dive.	太阳升起来的时候，你看这蓝色里，它们开始下沉，
Down -- and as the sun gets brighter they go a little deeper, little deeper.	往下。当阳光变得强烈，它们就沉得更深一点，再深一点。
They plumb the depths down to 600 meters, in temperatures to one degree centigrade, and this is why you see them on the surface -- it's so cold down there.	它们垂直下降可达600米，那里的温度仅1摄氏度， 这也是为什么会看到它们在海面的原因，那下面太冷了。
They've got to come up, warm, get that solar power, and then plunge back into the depths, and go up and down and up and down.	它们必须上升，寻找温暖，获得太阳能， 然后它们再下降到深处，然后上升，下降，上上下下。
And they're hitting a layer down there; it's called the deep scattering layer -- which a whole variety of food's in that layer.	而且它们会经过一个称为深海散射层的水层， 那里有各种各样的食物。
So rather than just being some sunbathing slacker, they're really very industrious fish that dance this wild dance between the surface and the bottom and through temperature.	所以跟一些喜欢日光浴的懒汉比起来， 它们可辛勤地多，在海水表层和底层之间 在不同温度之间来回地舞蹈着。
We see the same pattern -- now with these tags we're seeing a similar pattern for swordfishes, manta rays, tunas, a real three-dimensional play.	通过这些标记，我们在旗鱼、鲾鲼、金枪鱼等 身上也看到了同样的行为模式， 一个真正三维立体的活动。
This is part of a much larger program called the Census of Marine Life, where they're going to be tagging all over the world and the Mola's going to enter into that.	这是一个更大项目"海洋生物大普查"中的一部分， 他们的计划是在全世界进行标记， 翻车鱼也将是其中一部分。
And what's exciting -- you all travel, and you know the best thing about traveling is to be able to find the locals, and to find the great places by getting the local knowledge.	让人兴奋的是，你们都旅行过，你们知道， 在旅行中最棒的事情就是找到当地人， 然后跟他们了解当地知识，找到最好玩的地方。
Well now with the Census of Marine Life, we'll be able to sidle up to all the locals and explore 90 percent of our living space, with local knowledge.	现在有了海洋生物大普查，我们能够走近所有的"土著"， 运用当地的知识，探索占我们生物圈90%的地方。
It's never -- it's really never been a more exciting, or a vital time, to be a biologist.	再没有比这个时候当个生物学家更让人兴奋的事了。
Which brings me to my last point, and what I think is kind of the most fun.	这也引出我的最后一点，我想到的，也是最有趣的，
I set up a website because I was getting so many questions about Molas and sunfish.	我办了个网站，因为我收到了许许多多关于翻车鱼的问题。
And so I just figured I'd have the questions answered, and I'd be able to thank my funders, like National Geographic and Lindbergh.	我觉得我必须使这些问题得到解答， 我要感谢我的资助者，如国家地理和林德伯格。
But people would write into the site with all sorts of, all sorts of stories about these animals and wanting to help me get samples for genetic analysis.	人们会在网站上写下各种各样， 各种各样有关这些动物的故事， 并希望帮助我获取样品进行遗传分析。
And what I found most exciting is that everyone had a shared -- a shared love and an interest in the oceans.	我最感激动地是每个人都有一种 对海洋的大无私的爱和兴趣。
I was getting reports from Catholic nuns, Jewish Rabbis, Muslims, Christians -- everybody writing in, united by their love of life.	我收到的报告有来自天主教修女的， 有犹太教拉比的，穆斯林的，基督徒的——每个人 都怀着对生命的爱来写。
And to me that -- I don't think I could say it any better than the immortal Bard himself: "One touch of nature makes the whole world kin."	对我来说，我觉得我说得永远没有那位不朽的诗人说得好： "轻轻一碰大自然，整个世界就亲昵起来"
And sure, it may be just one big old silly fish, but it's helping.	这或许是一种古老的，笨笨的鱼，
If it's helping to unite the world, I think it's definitely the fish of the future.	但如果它能使世界团结起来，我想，它就属于未来。
Okay, so 90 percent of my photographic process is, in fact, not photographic.	好的， 事实上，我摄影过程的百分之九十， 不仅仅只是照相。
It involves a campaign of letter writing, research and phone calls to access my subjects, which can range from Hamas leaders in Gaza to a hibernating black bear in its cave in West Virginia.	它是一个包涵了写信， 研究以及电话联系得以接触拍摄对象 的复杂过程。 我的拍摄对象的范围可以从加沙地区的哈马斯领导人， 到西弗吉尼亚州一只蛰伏于洞穴中的黑熊。 到西弗吉尼亚州一只蛰伏于洞穴中的黑熊。
And oddly, the most notable letter of rejection I ever received came from Walt Disney World, a seemingly innocuous site.	奇怪的是，我所收到的所有拒信中， 最值得注意的一封， 来自于迪斯尼世界， 一个看起来完全无害的地方。
And it read -- I'm just going to read a key sentence: "Especially during these violent times, I personally believe that the magical spell cast upon guests who visit our theme parks is particularly important to protect and helps to provide them with an important fantasy they can escape to."	我只打算读读最关键的一句： "尤其实在现在这样一个恐怖时期， 我个人相信， 在游览我们主题公园的客人们身上带有的神奇魔力， 特别重要， 它为帮助 人们实现逃离现实进入一个想象中的神奇世界 提供了保障。"
Photography threatens fantasy.	摄影会威胁想象力。
They didn't want to let my camera in because it confronts constructed realities, myths and beliefs, and provides what appears to be evidence of a truth.	他们不想让我的照相机进入迪斯尼， 因为照相机能挑战了他们所建立的现实、神秘以及信仰， 并提供了真正 事实的证据。
But there are multiple truths attached to every image, depending on the creator's intention, the viewer and the context in which it is presented.	但每幅照片，都被赋予了不止一个真相， 这取决于拍摄者的目的，以及观看者 以及照片本身所处的环境。
Over a five year period following September 11th, when the American media and government were seeking hidden and unknown sites beyond its borders, most notably weapons of mass destruction, I chose to look inward at that which was integral to America's foundation, mythology and daily functioning.	在911之后的五年多， 当美国媒体和政府在寻找 美国境外 隐藏的和不为人所知的地点 和著名的大规模杀伤武器， 我选择去探究一些更深层次的东西—— 它们对美国的国家基础、 神话和国家机能来说，是不可或缺的。
I wanted to confront the boundaries of the citizen, self-imposed and real, and confront the divide between privileged and public access to knowledge.	我自愿并真诚地 希望去突破公民的边界， 突破特权和公共介入信息之间的鸿沟， 突破特权和公共介入信息之间的鸿沟，
It was a critical moment in American history and global history where one felt they didn't have access to accurate information.	这在美国历史乃至世界历史上， 都是重要的时刻—— 人们发现他们无法触及精确的信息。
And I wanted to see the center with my own eyes, but what I came away with is a photograph.	我希望我能亲眼看见这一切的核心， 但随我上路的，只是一部相机。
And it's just another place from which to observe, and the understanding that there are no absolute, all-knowing insiders.	那只是另一个让我观察的地方， 并让我了解到， 世上没有绝对的、无所不知的知情人。
And the outsider can never really reach the core.	而局外人则永远也无法真正触及事情的核心。
I'm going to run through some of the photographs in this series.	我将展示这一系列中的一些相片。
It's titled, "An American Index of the Hidden and Unfamiliar," and it's comprised of nearly 70 images.	这个系列取名为： 探寻隐藏的美国。 它由将近70幅照片组成。
In this context I'll just show you a few.	在今天的演讲里，我只能展示其中的一些。
This is a nuclear waste storage and encapsulation facility at Hanford site in Washington State, where there are over 1,900 stainless steel capsules containing nuclear waste submerged in water.	这是一个存储、封装核废料的基地 位于华盛顿州的汉福德， 这里有超过1900个浸入于水中的 不锈钢容器， 它们盛有核废料。
A human standing in front of an unprotected capsule would die instantly.	如果一个人站在毫无任何保护措施的容器前，他将立刻死亡。
And I found one section amongst all of these that actually resembled the outline of the United States of America, which you can see here.	我发现其中的一部分 正好勾勒出了美国领土的轮廓。 正好勾勒出了美国领土的轮廓。 你可以在这里看到。
And a big part of the work that is sort of absent in this context is text.	在这样的情况下， 作品里缺失的，是文字。
So I create these two poles.	因此，我创建了两个部分：
Every image is accompanied with a very detailed factual text.	每幅图片都配有一段非常详尽的、确凿的文字说明。
And what I'm most interested in is the invisible space between a text and its accompanying image, and how the image is transformed by the text and the text by the image.	而我最感兴趣的是， 存在于文字和对应图片之间的 隐形的距离， 以及照片如何被转述为文字， 文字又如何由照片阐释。
So, at best, the image is meant to float away into abstraction and multiple truths and fantasy.	所以，最理想的情况，照片也注定要转变为 抽象的概念、真相和想象。
And then the text functions as this cruel anchor that kind of nails it to the ground.	而文字则如同锐利的锚 将这些漂浮的东西牢牢地按在地上。
But in this context I'm just going to read an abridged version of those texts.	今天时间有限， 我只能读缩略的版本。
This is a cryopreservation unit, and it holds the bodies of the wife and mother of cryonics pioneer Robert Ettinger, who hoped to be awoken one day to extended life in good health, with advancements in science and technology, all for the cost of 35 thousand dollars, for forever.	这是一个冷冻保存单元 里面保存了人体冷冻法先驱 罗伯特爱丁格的妻子和母亲的尸体。 罗伯特希望有一天能唤起并延续她们的生命， 用先进的科学技术使她们重新获得健康。 这项技术一次性收费35000美元。
This is a 21-year-old Palestinian woman undergoing hymenoplasty.	这是一个21岁的巴勒斯坦女性， 她正在接受处女膜修复手术。
Hymenoplasty is a surgical procedure which restores the virginal state, allowing her to adhere to certain cultural expectations regarding virginity and marriage.	处女膜成形术是一项用来恢复处女之身的手术， 这使她能够满足特定的 贞洁观和婚姻观的要求。
So it essentially reconstructs a ruptured hymen, allowing her to bleed upon having sexual intercourse, to simulate the loss of virginity.	这项手术基本上就是修复已经破裂的处女膜， 使得她能在性交的时候流血， 来模拟失去贞操的过程。
This is a jury simulation deliberation room, and you can see beyond that two-way mirror jury advisers standing in a room behind the mirror.	这是一个陪审团审理模拟房间， 你可以看到在双向玻璃镜后面， 陪审团顾问站在镜子后的另一个房间里。
And they observe deliberations after mock trial proceedings so that they can better advise their clients how to adjust their trial strategy to have the outcome that they're hoping for.	在模拟审判后， 顾问们会观察审判的过程， 这样他们就能更好地为他们的客户提建议，告诉他们如何调整审判的策略， 以达到他们所期望的结果。
This process costs 60,000 dollars.	这个过程需要60000美元。
This is a U.S. Customs and Border Protection room, a contraband room, at John F. Kennedy International Airport.	这是美国海关和边境保护局的一个房间， 位于约翰肯尼迪机场，用来存放查处的走私品。
On that table you can see 48 hours' worth of seized goods from passengers entering in to the United States.	在那张桌子上，你可以看到48小时之内 从入境美国的乘客身上搜查出的物品。
There is a pig's head and African cane rats.	这里有一个猪头和非洲蔗鼠
And part of my photographic work is I'm not just documenting what's there.	我的摄影工作的一部分是， 我并不只是记录下那里有什么，
I do take certain liberties and intervene.	我还行使了一定的自由权力和介入。
And in this I really wanted it to resemble an early still-life painting, so I spent some time with the smells and items.	在这幅照片中， 我希望它看起来能像一副早期的静物画。 因此我花了一些时间来忍受其间的各种味道和奇怪的物品。
This is the exhibited art on the walls of the CIA in Langley, Virginia, their original headquarters building.	这是展示在美国中央情报局墙上的艺术品， 位于弗吉尼亚州兰利，是中央情报局的最初的总部大楼。
And the CIA has had a long history with both covert and public cultural diplomacy efforts.	美国中央情报局无论在隐秘的，还是公开的文化外交努力上 都具有悠久的历史。
And it's speculated that some of their interest in the arts was designed to counter Soviet communism and promote what it considered to be pro-American thoughts and aesthetics.	据推测，他们对于艺术的喜好 是有意对抗苏联共产主义， 来推进他们所代表的先进的美国的 思想和审美。
And one of the art forms that elicited the interest of the agency, and had thus come under question, is abstract expressionism.	其中一种艺术引起情报局的兴趣， 并因此引发争议的艺术形式，是抽象表达艺术。
This is the Forensic Anthropology Research Facility, and on a six acre plot there are approximately 75 cadavers at any given time that are being studied by forensic anthropologists and researchers who are interested in monitoring a rate of corpse decomposition.	这是一个辨证人类学研究的场景。 在一个6英亩的土地上， 任一时间内都有大约75具尸体 供辨证人类学家研究， 他们对观察尸体 腐烂的速度很感兴趣。
And in this particular photograph the body of a young boy has been used to reenact a crime scene.	在这幅图上，一个男孩的尸体 被用来再现一个犯罪的场景。
This is the only federally funded site where it is legal to cultivate cannabis for scientific research in the United States.	这是唯一一个联邦政府支持的 合法制造大麻的地方。 所制造的大麻用作全美范围内的相关科学研究。
It's a research crop marijuana grow room.	这是一个研究用大麻的种植房间。
And part of the work that I hope for is that there is a sort of disorienting entropy where you can't find any discernible formula in how these things -- they sort of awkwardly jump from government to science to religion to security -- and you can't completely understand how information is being distributed.	我的一部分工作的目的是， 因为现在存在一种令人迷失的信息混乱， 你无法找到任何可识别的模式， 来解释这些东西是如何笨拙地从政府跳到科学 又跳到宗教继而跳到安全领域—— 你根本无法完全理解 信息是如何被传播开来的。
These are transatlantic submarine communication cables that travel across the floor of the Atlantic Ocean, connecting North America to Europe.	这些是跨大西洋的水下通信电缆， 它们横跨了整个大西洋海底， 将北美和欧洲联结起来。
They carry over 60 million simultaneous voice conversations, and in a lot of the government and technology sites there was just this very apparent vulnerability.	它们同时传递着超过6千万个音频通话。 在许多政府和科技场所 它们看起来非常地脆弱。
This one is almost humorous because it feels like I could just snip all of that conversation in one easy cut.	这一个近乎滑稽，因为看起来好像我只要 轻轻一剪，就可以随时中断所有通话。
But stuff did feel like it could have been taken 30 or 40 years ago, like it was locked in the Cold War era and hadn't necessarily progressed.	但是工作人员们认为它已经启用了30或40年了， 正如它在冷战时代就已经锁定， 必然没有改进。
This is a Braille edition of Playboy magazine.	这是一个盲文版本的《花花公子》杂志。
And this is ... a division of the Library of Congress produces a free national library service for the blind and visually impaired, and the publications they choose to publish are based on reader popularity.	这是来自美国国会图书馆的一个部门 为盲人和视觉受损人士 提供的一项全国免费图书馆服务。 他们对出版读物的选择 是基于读者群的分布。
And Playboy is always in the top few.	而《花花公子》总是遥遥领先的几个之一。
But you'd be surprised, they don't do the photographs. It's just the text.	但你一定会感到意外，他们并不刊印图片，只有文字。
This is an avian quarantine facility where all imported birds coming into America are required to undergo a 30-day quarantine, where they are tested for diseases including Exotic Newcastle Disease and Avian Influenza.	这是一个鸟类检疫隔离装置。 所有入境的鸟 都需要进行30天的检疫隔离。 在这里，它们需要被检疫各种疾病， 包括稀有的新城病 和禽流感。
This film shows the testing of a new explosive fill on a warhead.	这个短篇展现了 一个新的爆炸性核弹头测试。
And the Air Armament Center at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida is responsible for the deployment and testing of all air-delivered weaponry coming from the United States.	位于佛罗里达州埃格林空军基地的 航空武器中心 负责研发和测试 所有美国的空投武器。 所有美国的空投武器。
And the film was shot on 72 millimeter, government-issue film.	这个短篇是用官方制定的72厘米胶片拍摄的。
And that red dot is a marking on the government-issue film.	那个红点就是官方制定胶片上的标志。
All living white tigers in North America are the result of selective inbreeding -- that would be mother to son, father to daughter, sister to brother -- to allow for the genetic conditions that create a salable white tiger.	所有生活在北美的白虎 都是通过选择性近亲交配所繁殖的。 这意味着母亲和儿子， 父亲和女儿，姐妹和兄弟交配—— 保证基因的条件 能交配出能出售的白虎。
Meaning white fur, ice blue eyes, a pink nose.	这也就是要白色的皮毛，冰蓝色的眼睛和粉红的鼻子。
And the majority of these white tigers are not born in a salable state and are killed at birth.	而这些白虎中的大多数， 都不能天生满足出售的条件， 在出生时就被杀死了。
It's a very violent process that is little known.	这是一个鲜为人知的、非常残忍的过程。
And the white tiger is obviously celebrated in several forms of entertainment.	白虎在很多娱乐形式中都非常有名。
Kenny was born. He actually made it to adulthood.	肯尼出生并长到成年，
He has since passed away, but was mentally retarded and suffers from severe bone abnormalities.	它已经过世了， 但它智力发展迟缓 并有严重的骨头异常。
This, on a lighter note, is at George Lucas' personal archive.	这个用淡色便签做成的东西， 是乔治卢卡斯的个人收藏。
This is the Death Star.	这是一个死去的星球。
And it's shown here in its true orientation.	展示的是它真实的方向。
In the context of "Star Wars: Return of the Jedi," its mirror image is presented.	在星球大战之绝地归来中， 展示了它的镜像图。
They flip the negative.	它们反响旋转。
And you can see the photoetched brass detailing, and the painted acrylic facade.	你可以看到光刻黄铜的细节， 以及塑料表面上的图画。
In the context of the film, this is a deep-space battle station of the Galactic Empire, capable of annihilating planets and civilizations, and in reality it measures about four feet by two feet.	在电影中， 它是银河帝国的深空大战发生的地方， 能够消灭星球和文明。 而在现实中，它只有大约四尺乘以两尺大小。
This is at Fort Campbell in Kentucky.	这是在肯塔基州的福特坎贝尔。
It's a Military Operations on Urbanized Terrain site.	这是一个"城市化地区"的军事行动
Essentially they've simulated a city for urban combat, and this is one of the structures that exists in that city.	总体上，他们模拟了一个城市， 来模拟城市的战斗。 而这是那个城市里的许多结构中的一个。
It's called the World Church of God.	它叫做"上帝的世界教堂"。
It's supposed to be a generic site of worship.	它本应是一个用作礼拜的普通教堂。
And after I took this photograph, they constructed a wall around the World Church of God to mimic the set-up of mosques in Afghanistan or Iraq.	在我拍了这幅照片之后， 他们在"上帝的世界教堂"周围筑起了一面墙， 来模仿在阿富汗或伊拉克建起的清真寺。
And I worked with Mehta Vihar who creates virtual simulations for the army for tactical practice.	我与迈塔维亚， 他为军队的战术训练 创建了这些模拟环境。
And we put that wall around the World Church of God, and also used the characters and vehicles and explosions that are offered in the video games for the army.	我们在"上帝的世界教堂"周围筑起围墙， 并使用了人物、交通工具和爆炸效果， 这些都是为制造军用电子游戏的提供的
And I put them into my photograph.	于是我把他们都装进了我的照片。
This is live HIV virus at Harvard Medical School, who is working with the U.S. Government to develop sterilizing immunity.	这是在哈佛医学院拍摄的活的艾滋病病毒。 哈佛医学院正与美国政府合作， 研制可以灭菌的免疫过程。
And Alhurra is a U.S. Government- sponsored Arabic language television network that distributes news and information to over 22 countries in the Arab world.	Alhurra是一个美国政府支助的 阿拉伯语电视网络。 它为阿拉伯世界超过22个国家提供新闻和信息。
It runs 24 hours a day, commercial free.	它每天运行24个小时，并且是免费的。
However, it's illegal to broadcast Alhurra within the United States.	然而，在美国境内播放Alhurra是违法的。
And in 2004, they developed a channel called Alhurra Iraq, which specifically deals with events occurring in Iraq and is broadcast to Iraq.	在2004年，他们开发了一个叫做"Alhurra 伊拉克"的频道， 专门报道发生在伊拉克的事件， 并对伊拉克播放。
Now I'm going to move on to another project I did.	现在，我要介绍我做的另一个项目。
It's titled "The Innocents."	名字叫做"无辜的人"。
And for the men in these photographs, photography had been used to create a fantasy.	对于这些照片上的人来说， 摄影已经成为了制造幻想的工具。
Contradicting its function as evidence of a truth, in these instances it furthered the fabrication of a lie.	不仅仅反驳了事实， 摄影在这些事例中更沦为编织谎言的工具。
I traveled across the United States photographing men and women who had been wrongfully convicted of crimes they did not commit, violent crimes.	我穿越了整个美国， 拍摄那些被误判的人们， 他们被迫承认他们并没有犯下的暴力罪行。
I investigate photography's ability to blur truth and fiction, and its influence on memory, which can lead to severe, even lethal consequences.	我调查了摄影混淆是非的能力， 以及它对于记忆的影响。 这样的影响可以导致非常严重，甚至致命的结果。
For the men in these photographs, the primary cause of their wrongful conviction was mistaken identification.	对于这些照片里的人， 造成他们误判的主要原因， 是错误的指认。
A victim or eyewitness identifies a suspected perpetrator through law enforcement's use of images.	一个目击者 通过法律强制使用的影像 来指认嫌疑犯。
But through exposure to composite sketches, Polaroids, mug shots and line-ups, eyewitness testimony can change.	但看完混合草图、 宝丽来一次成像、脸部图像和一排人的图像后， 目击者的证词可能会改变。
I'll give you an example from a case.	我将给你一个这样的例子。
A woman was raped and presented with a series of photographs from which to identify her attacker.	一个妇女被强奸了，而后警方给了她一系列的照片， 要她从中指认出强奸她的人。
She saw some similarities in one of the photographs, but couldn't quite make a positive identification.	她对其中的一张照片有点眼熟， 但并不能完全确定这个人就是罪犯。
Days later, she is presented with another photo array of all new photographs, except that one photograph that she had some draw to from the earlier array is repeated in the second array.	几天后， 警方又给她一个新的照片系列。 不过第一列照片中只有之前她表示眼熟的照片， 重新出现在第二系列中。
And a positive identification is made because the photograph replaced the memory, if there ever was an actual memory.	于是，她做出了一个十分肯定的指认， 因为即使她真的有记忆， 照片也取代了记忆。
Photography offered the criminal justice system a tool that transformed innocent citizens into criminals, and the criminal justice system failed to recognize the limitations of relying on photographic identifications.	于是，照片为犯罪裁决系统 提供了一个能把无辜的人变成罪犯的工具。 而犯罪裁决系统并不能意识到 倚靠照片来指认的缺陷。
Frederick Daye, who is photographed at his alibi location, where 13 witnesses placed him at the time of the crime.	我为弗里德雷在这个由13名目击证人 指认他犯罪的地方照了这张照片。
He was convicted by an all-white jury of rape, kidnapping and vehicle theft.	他被一个由白人组成的陪审团 宣判犯有强奸、绑架和盗窃车辆罪。
And he served 10 years of a life sentence.	他为此被判了10年的监禁。
Now DNA exonerated Frederick and it also implicated another man who was serving time in prison.	现在，DNA洗清了弗里德雷的罪行， 这还牵涉到另一个 彼时在监狱服刑的人。
But the victim refused to press charges because she claimed that law enforcement had permanently altered her memory through the use of Frederick's photograph.	但是目击者拒绝为此负责， 她声称法律机关强制使用的弗里德雷的照片， 已经永久性地修改了她的记忆。
Charles Fain was convicted of kidnapping, rape and murder of a young girl walking to school.	查尔斯 费恩被判有绑架、强奸和谋杀 一名上学途中的女孩的罪名。
He served 18 years of a death sentence.	他为此被判死刑，服刑18年
I photographed him at the scene of the crime at the Snake River in Idaho.	我为他在爱达华的蛇河边照了相， 这就是案件发生的地方。
And I photographed all of the wrongfully convicted at sites that came to particular significance in the history of their wrongful conviction.	我为所有这些被误判的人们， 在他们被误判的历史中十分重要的 地方拍了照片。
The scene of arrest, the scene of misidentification, the alibi location.	这些是指他们被逮捕的地方，他们被错误指认的地方， 以及他们在案发当时所在的地方。
And here, the scene of the crime, it's this place to which he's never been, but changed his life forever.	而这里——犯罪现场， 是他从来没有到过，却永远地改变了他的命运的地方。
So photographing there, I was hoping to highlight the tenuous relationship between truth and fiction, in both his life and in photography.	所以，在那里照相，我希望能 强调在他的生命，以及在照片中， 是非之间脆弱的关系。
Calvin Washington was convicted of capital murder.	凯文华盛顿被宣判犯有蓄意谋杀罪。
He served 13 years of a life sentence in Waco, Texas.	他在德州瓦克度过了13年的监禁岁月。
Larry Mayes, I photographed at the scene of arrest, where he hid between two mattresses in Gary, Indiana, in this very room to hide from the police.	我为拉里梅在印第安纳州盖里拍了这张照片。 这是他被捕的地方，当时就在这个房间里，藏在两个床垫之间， 躲避警察的抓捕。
He ended up serving 18 and a half years of an 80 year sentence for rape and robbery.	他因强奸和抢劫罪，被判了80年监禁， 最后服刑18年半。
The victim failed to identify Larry in two live lineups and then made a positive identification, days later, from a photo array.	目击证人在两次排队照片中 没有指认出拉里， 却在几天之后从一系列照片中 肯定了拉里是罪犯。
Larry Youngblood served eight years of a 10 and half year sentence in Arizona for the abduction and repeated sodomizing of a 10 year old boy at a carnival.	拉里杨伯德被判在一个嘉年华上 拐骗和鸡奸一名10岁男童罪 他在亚利桑那州服了10年监禁中的8年。
He is photographed at his alibi location.	他在案发当时他所在的地方照了相。
Ron Williamson. Ron was convicted of the rape and murder of a barmaid at a club, and served 11 years of a death sentence.	罗威廉姆森被判强奸并杀害 一名酒吧女服务员， 并被判死刑，服刑了11年。
I photographed Ron at a baseball field because he had been drafted to the Oakland A's to play professional baseball just before his conviction.	我为罗在一个棒球场照了相， 因为就在他被判有罪之前， 他刚刚加入奥克兰棒球队，准备开始职业棒球生涯。
And the state's key witness in Ron's case was, in the end, the actual perpetrator.	而最后才证实， 罗的案子中最重要的目击证人，才是真正的罪犯。
Ronald Jones served eight years of a death sentence for rape and murder of a 28-year-old woman.	罗纳德琼斯因强奸并杀害一名28岁女子 而被判死刑，服刑8年。
I photographed him at the scene of arrest in Chicago.	我为他在芝加哥被捕地点照了一张相。
William Gregory was convicted of rape and burglary.	威廉格里格雷被判为强奸和入室盗窃罪，监禁70年。
He served seven years of a 70 year sentence in Kentucky.	他在肯塔基州过了其中7年的牢狱生活。
Timothy Durham, who I photographed at his alibi location where 11 witnesses placed him at the time of the crime, was convicted of 3.5 years of a 3220 year sentence, for several charges of rape and robbery.	我为蒂姆德伦在案发时他不在的地方照了相。 而11名目击证人指正他在这里犯下强奸和抢劫罪。 他因此被判3220年监禁， 服刑了3年半。 服刑了3年半。
He had been misidentified by an 11-year-old victim.	他是被一名11岁的证人错误指认的。
Troy Webb is photographed here at the scene of the crime in Virginia.	卓伊韦伯在弗吉尼亚的犯罪现场被拍摄了这张照片。
He was convicted of rape, kidnapping and robbery, and served seven years of a 47 year sentence.	他被判有强奸、绑架和抢劫罪， 在监狱里度过了47年刑罚中的7年。
Troy's picture was in a photo array that the victim tentatively had some draw toward, but said he looked too old.	卓伊是在一系列照片中被证人指认的， 证人对这个指认并不十分确定， 认为卓伊看起来太老了一点。
The police went and found a photograph of Troy Webb from four years earlier, which they entered into a photo array days later, and he was positively identified.	于是警察就去找了一张卓伊 四年前的照片， 几天后把它放进照片系列里， 于是卓伊就被指认了。
Now I'm going to leave you with a self portrait.	现在，我要最后展示一个我的自拍照。
And it reiterates that distortion is a constant, and our eyes are easily deceived.	它继续说明了相片的失真是经常发生的， 而我们的眼睛非常容易受到欺骗。
That's it. Thank you.	谢谢大家。
	（鼓掌）
At every stage of our lives we make decisions that will profoundly influence the lives of the people we're going to become, and then when we become those people, we're not always thrilled with the decisions we made.	在我们生命的每个阶段， 我们都会做出一些决定， 这些决定会深刻影响 未来我们自己的生活， 当我们成为未来的自己时， 我们并不总是对过去 做过的决定感到高兴。
So young people pay good money to get tattoos removed that teenagers paid good money to get.	所以年轻人花很多钱 洗去当还是青少年时 花了很多钱做上的纹身。
Middle-aged people rushed to divorce people who young adults rushed to marry.	中年人急着跟 年轻时迫不及待想结婚的人离婚。
Older adults work hard to lose what middle-aged adults worked hard to gain.	老年人很努力的挥霍着 作为中年人时不停工作所赚的钱。
On and on and on.	如此没完没了。
The question is, as a psychologist, that fascinates me is, why do we make decisions that our future selves so often regret?	作为一个心理学家， 让我感兴趣的问题是， 为什么我们会做出 让自己将来常常后悔的决定？
Now, I think one of the reasons -- I'll try to convince you today — is that we have a fundamental misconception about the power of time.	我认为其中一个原因—— 而我今天想说服你们的——， 就是我们对时间的力量 有个基本的错误概念。
Every one of you knows that the rate of change slows over the human lifespan, that your children seem to change by the minute but your parents seem to change by the year.	你们每个人都知道变化的速度 随着人的年龄增长不断放慢， 孩子们好像每分钟都有变化， 而父母们的变化则要慢得多。
But what is the name of this magical point in life where change suddenly goes from a gallop to a crawl?	那么生命中这个让变化 突然间从飞速变得缓慢的 神奇转折点应该叫什么呢？
Is it teenage years? Is it middle age?	是青少年时期吗？是中年时期吗？
Is it old age? The answer, it turns out, for most people, is now, wherever now happens to be.	是老年阶段吗？ 其实对大多数人来说， 答案是，现在， 无论现在发生在什么。
What I want to convince you today is that all of us are walking around with an illusion, an illusion that history, our personal history, has just come to an end, that we have just recently become the people that we were always meant to be and will be for the rest of our lives.	今天我想让大家明白的是， 我们所有人都在围绕着 一种错觉生活， 这种错觉就是，我们每个人的过去， 都已经结束了， 我们已经成为了 我们应该成为的那种人， 在余下的生命中也都会如此。
Let me give you some data to back up that claim.	我想给你们展示一些数据 来支持这个观点。
So here's a study of change in people's personal values over time.	这是一项关于人们的个人价值观 随时间变化的研究。
Here's three values.	这里有3种价值观。
Everybody here holds all of them, but you probably know that as you grow, as you age, the balance of these values shifts.	每个人的生活都与这三个价值观相关， 但是你们可能知道， 随着你们慢慢长大， 变老，这三个价值观的平衡点 会不断变化。
So how does it do so?	到底是怎么回事呢？
Well, we asked thousands of people.	我们询问了数千人。
We asked half of them to predict for us how much their values would change in the next 10 years, and the others to tell us how much their values had changed in the last 10 years.	我们让他们当中一半的人预测了一下 在未来10年中， 他们的价值观会发生多大的改变， 让另一半人告诉我们 在过去的10年中， 他们的价值观发生了多大的变化。
And this enabled us to do a really interesting kind of analysis, because it allowed us to compare the predictions of people, say, 18 years old, to the reports of people who were 28, and to do that kind of analysis throughout the lifespan.	这项调查可以让我们做一个很有趣的分析， 因为它可以让我们将 大约18岁左右的人的预测同 大约28岁左右的人的答案相比较， 这项分析可以贯穿人的一生。
Here's what we found.	这是我们的发现。
First of all, you are right, change does slow down as we age, but second, you're wrong, because it doesn't slow nearly as much as we think.	首先，你们是对的， 随着我们年龄的增长，变化会减缓。 第二，你们错了， 因为这种变化并不像我们想象的那么慢。
At every age, from 18 to 68 in our data set, people vastly underestimated how much change they would experience over the next 10 years.	在我们的数据库从18岁到68岁的 每一个年龄段中， 人们大大的低估了在未来的10年 他们会经历多少变化。
We call this the "end of history" illusion.	我们把这叫做"历史终止"错觉。
To give you an idea of the magnitude of this effect, you can connect these two lines, and what you see here is that 18-year-olds anticipate changing only as much as 50-year-olds actually do.	为了让你们了解这种影响有多大， 你们可以把这两条线连接起来， 你们现在看到的是18岁的人群 预期的改变仅仅和 50岁的人群实际经历的一样。
Now it's not just values. It's all sorts of other things.	现在不仅仅是价值观了。 其他的方面都也有变化。
For example, personality.	比如说，人格。
Many of you know that psychologists now claim that there are five fundamental dimensions of personality: neuroticism, openness to experience, agreeableness, extraversion, and conscientiousness.	你们当中的很多人知道现在心理学家们认为 人格可以分为五个基本维度： 神经质性，经验汲取度， 协调性，外向性和道德感。
Again, we asked people how much they expected to change over the next 10 years, and also how much they had changed over the last 10 years, and what we found, well, you're going to get used to seeing this diagram over and over, because once again the rate of change does slow as we age, but at every age, people underestimate how much their personalities will change in the next decade.	回到原来的话题， 我们问人们他们期待未来的10年中 自己会有多大的变化， 以及他们在过去的10年中发生了多少变化， 我们发现了， 你们会习惯不断地看到这个图表， 因为又一次，变化速率随着我们的年龄增长 减慢了。 但是在每一个年龄阶段，人们都低估了 在未来的十年中 他们的人格会发生多大的改变。
And it isn't just ephemeral things like values and personality.	而且不光是像价值观和人格这样的 临时性的特质。
You can ask people about their likes and dislikes, their basic preferences.	你们可以问问人们关于他们喜好和厌恶的事， 他们基本的偏好。
For example, name your best friend, your favorite kind of vacation, what's your favorite hobby, what's your favorite kind of music.	比如说，说出你最好朋友的名字， 你最喜欢什么样的假期， 你最大的爱好是什么， 你最喜欢什么样的音乐。
People can name these things.	人们可以说出这些事情。
We ask half of them to tell us, "Do you think that that will change over the next 10 years?"	我们让他们当中的一半人告诉我们， "你认为这在未来10年内会改变吗？"
and half of them to tell us, "Did that change over the last 10 years?"	让另一半告诉我们， "这个在过去十年内变化了吗？"
And what we find, well, you've seen it twice now, and here it is again: people predict that the friend they have now is the friend they'll have in 10 years, the vacation they most enjoy now is the one they'll enjoy in 10 years, and yet, people who are 10 years older all say, "Eh, you know, that's really changed."	我们的发现是， 嗯，这个图你们已经看过2次了， 再展示一次： 人们推测他们现在的朋友 在未来10年中还会是他们的朋友， 他们喜欢的度假之地在未来10年内 还会是他们喜欢的地方， 然而，年长10岁的人都会说： "嗯，你知道，这确实不一样了。"
Does any of this matter?	这有什么关系吗？
Is this just a form of mis-prediction that doesn't have consequences?	这只是一种 并不会有什么后果的错误的预测吗？
No, it matters quite a bit, and I'll give you an example of why.	不，这有很大的关系， 我会举例告诉你们为什么。
It bedevils our decision-making in important ways.	它在很多重要的方面困扰着我们做决定。
Bring to mind right now for yourself your favorite musician today and your favorite musician 10 years ago.	现在想想你们此时此刻 最喜欢的音乐人， 还有10年前你们最喜欢的音乐人。
I put mine up on the screen to help you along.	我把我的答案放在大屏幕上作为提示。
Now we asked people to predict for us, to tell us how much money they would pay right now to see their current favorite musician perform in concert 10 years from now, and on average, people said they would pay 129 dollars for that ticket.	现在我们让人们 预测一下，告诉我们 他们现在愿意付多少钱 来参加他们现在最喜欢的音乐人 从现在起10年后的音乐会， 平均来讲，人们会说他们会付 129美元买票。
And yet, when we asked them how much they would pay to see the person who was their favorite 10 years ago perform today, they say only 80 dollars.	然而，当我们问他们 愿意付多少钱去看 他们10年前喜欢的人现在的演出， 他们说只有80块。
Now, in a perfectly rational world, these should be the same number, but we overpay for the opportunity to indulge our current preferences because we overestimate their stability.	那么，在一个完全理性的世界里， 这两个数字应该是相同的， 但是我们为沉浸于当前喜好中 的机会付了更多的钱， 因为我们高估了它们的持久性。
Why does this happen? We're not entirely sure, but it probably has to do with the ease of remembering versus the difficulty of imagining.	为什么会发生这样的变化呢？ 我们也不是很确定， 不过这可能与 记忆的消逝和 想象的难度相关。
Most of us can remember who we were 10 years ago, but we find it hard to imagine who we're going to be, and then we mistakenly think that because it's hard to imagine, it's not likely to happen.	我们中的大多数人都能记得 10年前的我们是什么样子， 但是要想像我们会成为什么样的人就困难了， 然后我们会错误地认为因为很难想象， 就不太可能会发生。
Sorry, when people say "I can't imagine that," they're usually talking about their own lack of imagination, and not about the unlikelihood of the event that they're describing.	很遗憾，当人们说"我可想象不出来"， 他们通常是在表达他们缺乏想象力， 而不是他们所描述的 不可能发生的事情。
The bottom line is, time is a powerful force.	总而言之，时间是一种强大的力量。
It transforms our preferences.	它改变了我们的喜好。
It reshapes our values.	它重塑了我们的价值观。
It alters our personalities.	它改变了我们的人格。
We seem to appreciate this fact, but only in retrospect.	我们似乎会感激这个事实， 但是只在回想过去的时候。
Only when we look backwards do we realize how much change happens in a decade.	只有在我们回首过去的时候我们才会认识到 在过去的十年里发生了多么大的变化。
It's as if, for most of us, the present is a magic time.	好像，对我们大多数人来说， 当前是个有魔力的时刻。
It's a watershed on the timeline.	它是时间轴上的分水岭。
It's the moment at which we finally become ourselves.	它是一个使我们最终成为 我们自己的时刻。
Human beings are works in progress that mistakenly think they're finished.	人类还处在发展变化的过程中， 却错误地以为他们不会发生任何改变了。
The person you are right now is as transient, as fleeting and as temporary as all the people you've ever been.	现在的你 只是处于过渡中，转瞬即逝， 暂时的的状态而已， 就像所有那些过去的你。
The one constant in our life is change.	在我们的生命中唯一不变的就是， 变化。
Thank you.	谢谢大家。
Think about your day for a second.	花点时间回想你的一天
You woke up, felt fresh air on your face as you walked out the door, encountered new colleagues and had great discussions, and felt in awe when you found something new.	你清晨醒来，走出房门的时候感受到清风拂过你的脸颊 巧遇新的同事，与其谈天说地 当你发现新事物时则心怀敬畏
But I bet there's something you didn't think about today -- something so close to home that you probably don't think about it very often at all.	但我确定今天会有些你没有想到的事情-- 一些如此贴近生活的 但你可能完全忽略的事情。
And that's that all the sensations, feelings, decisions and actions are mediated by the computer in your head called the brain.	其中包含的所有的感知能力，感情 决策和行动 都直接受控于在你头部的电脑 叫做大脑的部分。
Now the brain may not look like much from the outside -- a couple pounds of pinkish-gray flesh, amorphous -- but the last hundred years of neuroscience have allowed us to zoom in on the brain, and to see the intricacy of what lies within.	大脑看可不像外表看起来那样-- 只是几磅桃灰色的肉块， 非结晶的固体-- 但是经过上百年积淀的神经学 让我们能进一步的研究大脑， 并了解大脑的错综复杂。
And they've told us that this brain is an incredibly complicated circuit made out of hundreds of billions of cells called neurons.	研究告诉我们大脑 是由上千亿个神经元细胞 组成的难以想象的复杂电路
Now unlike a human-designed computer, where there's a fairly small number of different parts -- we know how they work, because we humans designed them -- the brain is made out of thousands of different kinds of cells, maybe tens of thousands.	不同于人类设计的电脑 那种由较少的不同元件组成的-- 我们了解它们如何工作，因为是我们人类设计出了它们-- 大脑由上千种不同的细胞组成 也许是上万种
They come in different shapes; they're made out of different molecules.	它们分化成不同的形状；它们分泌出不同分子；
And they project and connect to different brain regions, and they also change different ways in different disease states.	它们延伸并连接大脑的不同地区。 它们对于不同的疾病也表现出不同的方式。
Let's make it concrete.	说的具体一点
There's a class of cells, a fairly small cell, an inhibitory cell, that quiets its neighbors.	有一种细胞， 一种较小的，抑制性细胞，能够抑制周围细胞。
It's one of the cells that seems to be atrophied in disorders like schizophrenia.	这是一种其萎缩能导致类似神经分裂症状的细胞
It's called the basket cell.	这叫做篮细胞
And this cell is one of the thousands of kinds of cell that we are learning about.	它是我们正在研究的成千上万种细胞 中的一种
New ones are being discovered everyday.	每天都会有发现新型的细胞。
As just a second example: these pyramidal cells, large cells, they can span a significant fraction of the brain.	第二个例子： 这些锥体细胞，大型的细胞 他们分布在大脑的很多部位
They're excitatory.	它们易受刺激。
And these are some of the cells that might be overactive in disorders such as epilepsy.	其中的一部分细胞 可能会因过度的活动而导致疾病类似癫症。
Every one of these cells is an incredible electrical device.	这些细胞中每一个 都是一个神奇的电子元件
They receive input from thousands of upstream partners and compute their own electrical outputs, which then, if they pass a certain threshold, will go to thousands of downstream partners.	它们从上游细胞接收信息 然后编辑出它们自己的输出信息， 然后，如果这些信息通过了特定的界限， 就会传递到下游上千个细胞那里。
And this process, which takes just a millisecond or so, happens thousands of times a minute in every one of your 100 billion cells, as long as you live and think and feel.	这个仅仅会花费一毫秒左右的时间的过程 在你身上的每个1万亿个细胞中 每分钟发生上千次， 只要你活着 思考着感受着。
So how are we going to figure out what this circuit does?	我们将如何解释这些回路的运作呢？
Ideally, we could go through the circuit and turn these different kinds of cell on and off and see whether we could figure out which ones contribute to certain functions and which ones go wrong in certain pathologies.	主观上，我们能刺激这些回路 把不同种细胞反复刺激 看我们是否能了解 哪种细胞作用于特定的功用 哪种细胞出错会引起特定的病理
If we could activate cells, we could see what powers they can unleash, what they can initiate and sustain.	如果我们能激活细胞，我们就能了解它们能释放哪种能量 他们是如何启动和维持的.
If we could turn them off, then we could try and figure out what they're necessary for.	如果我们能把它们全部切断 我们就可能弄清楚它们的必要性。
And that's a story I'm going to tell you about today.	这就是今天我要告诉大家的故事。
And honestly, where we've gone through over the last 11 years, through an attempt to find ways of turning circuits and cells and parts and pathways of the brain on and off, both to understand the science and also to confront some of the issues that face us all as humans.	老实说， 我们试图寻找方法 来控制大脑中的回路，细胞，部分的组织还有 它的传输途径 这不仅是对科学的探索， 也是直面人类所面临的 一些问题。
Now before I tell you about the technology, the bad news is that a significant fraction of us in this room, if we live long enough, will encounter, perhaps, a brain disorder.	在我告诉大家这项技术之前 坏消息是我们之间的绝大数人 如果你们活的够久远的话 将会面临，也许，脑部疾病
Already, a billion people have had some kind of brain disorder that incapacitates them, and the numbers don't do it justice though.	如今，10亿人 已经患有某些脑部疾病 阻碍它们生活 虽然这数字无法准确的表现出其严重性
These disorders -- schizophrenia, Alzheimer's, depression, addiction -- they not only steal our time to live, they change who we are.	这些疾病--精神分裂症，老年痴呆症 抑郁症，成瘾症-- 它们不仅榨取我们的生命，而且篡改我们生存的意义
They take our identity and change our emotions and change who we are as people.	它剥夺了我们的性格也改变了我们的情感-- 更改变了我们做人的本质
Now in the 20th century, there was some hope that was generated through the development of pharmaceuticals for treating brain disorders, and while many drugs have been developed that can alleviate symptoms of brain disorders, practically none of them can be considered to be cured.	如今在20世纪， 通过治疗脑部疾病的 制药业的发展浮现出的一些希望 同时很多药物被研发出 能减缓脑部疾病的症状 实际上没有那种病被认为是能被治愈的
And part of that's because we're bathing the brain in the chemical.	其中一部分是因为，我们大脑浸泡在化学物质当中
This elaborate circuit made out of thousands of different kinds of cell is being bathed in a substance.	这复杂的回路 由上千种不同类型的细胞组成 正浸泡在液体当中
That's also why, perhaps, most of the drugs, and not all, on the market can present some kind of serious side effect too.	这也是为什么，市面上大部分的药物，不全都 会引起某些严重的副作用。
Now some people have gotten some solace from electrical stimulators that are implanted in the brain.	如今有些人通过在大脑植入电击器 来改善某些疾病。
And for Parkinson's disease, Cochlear implants, these have indeed been able to bring some kind of remedy to people with certain kinds of disorder.	对于帕金森症 耳蜗移植电击器 的确能够 带给患有一些特殊疾病的患者 一些治疗效果
But electricity also will go in all directions -- the path of least resistance, which is where that phrase, in part, comes from.	但是电流还是会往四散开去-- 找软柿子捏 这也是这句谚语的，部分的，出处
And it also will affect normal circuits as well as the abnormal ones that you want to fix.	电流不仅作用在我们需要修复的细胞还会影响到那些正常的回路
So again, we're sent back to the idea of ultra-precise control.	再一次，我们绕回到了 超精确控制的问题上
Could we dial-in information precisely where we want it to go?	我们是否能把信息精确的传输到我们想要地方？
So when I started in neuroscience 11 years ago, I had trained as an electrical engineer and a physicist, and the first thing I thought about was, if these neurons are electrical devices, all we need to do is to find some way of driving those electrical changes at a distance.	当11年前我开始研究神经科学 我受训成为一个电学工程师和物理学家 而且第一件我想到的事 如果这些神经元是电子元件 所有我们要做的是找到某些方法 在一定距离控制电流的变化
If we could turn on the electricity in one cell, but not its neighbors, that would give us the tool we need to activate and shut down these different cells, figure out what they do and how they contribute to the networks in which they're embedded.	如果我们能刺激单独一个细胞 而不牵涉它周边 那就我们就有了能激活和关闭各种不同细胞的工具 了解它们的作用和他们如何作用 在它们位于的脑部网络
And also it would allow us to have the ultra-precise control we need in order to fix the circuit computations that have gone awry.	同样这给了我们需要的超精确控制 来修复出错 的回路
Now how are we going to do that?	如今我们将怎么做呢？
Well there are many molecules that exist in nature, which are able to convert light into electricity.	自然中有很多分子 能够把光转化为电流
You can think of them as little proteins that are like solar cells.	你可以把它们看做小蛋白质 像太阳能细胞
If we can install these molecules in neurons somehow, then these neurons would become electrically drivable with light.	如果我们能用某种方法把这些分子注入到神经元中 这些神经元就能转型成光控的电子元件
And their neighbors, which don't have the molecule, would not.	那些周边的细胞，那些没有接受分子的，就不会转型
There's one other magic trick you need to make this all happen, and that's the ability to get light into the brain.	另外还有一个你需要知道的小窍门， 就是把光注入脑中。
And to do that -- the brain doesn't feel pain -- you can put -- taking advantage of all the effort that's gone into the Internet and communications and so on -- optical fibers connected to lasers that you can use to activate, in animal models for example, in pre-clinical studies, these neurons and to see what they do.	这么做--大脑不会感知到痛苦--你能-- 充分利用脑中 类似互联网和沟通的功能-- 把光纤连接到激光束中 以此来激活，比如说动物的细胞 在潜伏期的研究中 要了解这些神经元的功用
So how do we do this?	那我们应该怎么做呢？
Around 2004, in collaboration with Gerhard Nagel and Karl Deisseroth, this vision came to fruition.	大概在2004年 在与格哈德·内格尔和卡尔·戴斯洛合作的时候 假想得到了最终的成功
There's a certain alga that swims in the wild, and it needs to navigate towards light in order to photosynthesize optimally.	自然界中有一种特定的海藻 它就有趋光性 来达到最理想的光合效果
And it senses light with a little eye-spot, which works not unlike how our eye works.	它用一个小眼点来感知光线 但其工作原理和人眼大相径庭
In its membrane, or its boundary, it contains little proteins that indeed can convert light into electricity.	在它的细胞膜，或者它的边界 含有少量的蛋白质 能把光转化为电流
So these molecules are called channelrhodopsins.	这些分子被叫做槽型视紫质
And each of these proteins acts just like that solar cell that I told you about.	这种蛋白质就像我告诉过你们的太阳能细胞那样运作
When blue light hits it, it opens up a little hole and allows charged particles to enter the eye-spot, and that allows this eye-spot to have an electrical signal just like a solar cell charging up a battery.	当蓝光照射时，它会打开一个小口 允许带点的微粒进入眼点中 这样眼点就有了电信号 就像是用太阳能细胞给电池充电一般
So what we need to do is to take these molecules and somehow install them in neurons.	我们需要做的就是提取这些分子 然后用某种方法注入到神经元中
And because it's a protein, it's encoded for in the DNA of this organism.	同时因为这是蛋白质 由生物的DNA编码而成
So all we've got to do is take that DNA, put it into a gene therapy vector, like a virus, and put it into neurons.	所以我们所要做的就是提取DNA 注入到基因载体上，比如病毒 然后把病毒注入到神经元中
So it turned out that this was a very productive time in gene therapy, and lots of viruses were coming along.	结果证明基因载体是一个很直接的方法 病毒长驱直入
So this turned out to be very simple to do.	证实了操作的简易性
And early in the morning one day in the summer of 2004, we gave it a try, and it worked on the first try.	在2004年夏天的一个早晨 我们实物操作了一番，第一次尝试有了起效
You take this DNA and you put it into a neuron.	你提取出DNA并注入到神经元中
The neuron uses its natural protein-making machinery to fabricate these little light-sensitive proteins and install them all over the cell, like putting solar panels on a roof, and the next thing you know, you have a neuron which can be activated with light.	神经元用它自身的蛋白质合成器 来组装出这些小型的光敏蛋白质 并使其分不到细胞各处 就像在顶层架设太阳能板 接下去 你就有了个光敏的神经元
So this is very powerful.	这是个很有效的工具
One of the tricks you have to do is to figure out how to deliver these genes to the cells that you want and not all the other neighbors.	你要做的步骤 就是设法把这些基因注入到你需要的细胞内 而不是其他周边的细胞
And you can do that; you can tweak the viruses so they hit just some cells and not others.	你可以完成；你能转变这些病毒 让它们只针对一些细胞而涉及到其他细胞
And there's other genetic tricks you can play in order to get light-activated cells.	还有其他基因方式能 得到这种光敏细胞
This field has now come to be known as optogenetics.	如今这领域叫做光遗传学
And just as one example of the kind of thing you can do, you can take a complex network, use one of these viruses to deliver the gene just to one kind of cell in this dense network.	举个例子来说明你要做的， 你可以在一个复杂的网络系统 利用一种病毒来传递这种基因 在密集的细胞区域只针对一种细胞
And then when you shine light on the entire network, just that cell type will be activated.	接着当你照射整个区域的时候 只有那些特定的细胞被激活
So for example, lets sort of consider that basket cell I told you about earlier -- the one that's atrophied in schizophrenia and the one that is inhibitory.	比如说，用篮细胞来做例子会更简单一点 就是那种萎缩导致精神分裂 有抑制作用的细胞
If we can deliver that gene to these cells -- and they're not going to be altered by the expression of the gene, of course -- and then flash blue light over the entire brain network, just these cells are going to be driven.	如果我们能把基因注入到这些细胞中-- 而且他们不会引起基因的表现型有所改变-- 接着用蓝光照射整个脑组织 只有蓝细胞会被激活
And when the light turns off, these cells go back to normal, so they don't seem to be averse against that.	而当无光线的时候，这些细胞就变回普通的细胞 没有产生不良的后果
Not only can you use this to study what these cells do, what their power is in computing in the brain, but you can also use this to try to figure out -- well maybe we could jazz up the activity of these cells, if indeed they're atrophied.	不仅你能了解到这些细胞的功用 在大脑运作中它们的能效 而且你也能尝试解决-- 也许我们可以激活这些细胞的活性， 如果它们真的萎缩的话。
Now I want to tell you a couple of short stories about how we're using this, both at the scientific, clinical and pre-clinical levels.	现在我想告诉你一些小故事 关于我们怎么利用这技术的, 在科学，临床阶段和临床前阶段的研究。
One of the questions we've confronted is, what are the signals in the brain that mediate the sensation of reward?	在我们遭遇到的问题中有一个 是，大脑用什么样的信号来代表奖励的感觉呢？
Because if you could find those, those would be some of the signals that could drive learning.	因为如果我们找到的话 那能够驱使细胞学习的信号
The brain will do more of whatever got that reward.	大脑就会为了奖励竭尽全力
And also these are signals that go awry in disorders such as addiction.	同时也是这些出错的信号引起疾病类似成瘾症
So if we could figure out what cells they are, we could maybe find new targets for which drugs could be designed or screened against, or maybe places where electrodes could be put in for people who have very severe disability.	如果我们能够知道是哪些细胞的话 我们可能就有新的靶细胞 来专门设计或者挑选药物来对抗疾病 或者找到植入电击器的位置 来帮助那些有着严重残疾的病人
So to do that, we came up with a very simple paradigm in collaboration with the Fiorella group, where one side of this little box, if the animal goes there, the animal gets a pulse of light in order to make different cells in the brain sensitive to light.	为了做到这些，我们想出了一个简单的例子 在菲奥雷拉集团的协助下 在盒子的一边 如果动物经过这里，就会被光波照射到 来区别不同细胞对光的感应能力.
So if these cells can mediate reward, the animal should go there more and more.	那如果这些细胞是识别为被奖励的 那动物就会多次的经过那里
And so that's what happens.	这就是大致的经过
This animal's going to go to the right-hand side and poke his nose there, and he gets a flash of blue light every time he does that.	动物会向右转并用鼻子顶那块地方 每次它做这个动作就会有一道蓝光照射
And he'll do that hundreds and hundreds of times.	那它就会为此重复千上百次
These are the dopamine neurons, which some of you may have heard about, in some of the pleasure centers in the brain.	这些是多巴胺神经元 你们中的一些可能可能听说过它在大脑的快感中枢某处
Now we've shown that a brief activation of these is enough, indeed, to drive learning.	现在我们所展示的简短的步骤 就足够，确定的，来诱导学习行为
Now we can generalize the idea.	如今我们概括出大致的观点
Instead of one point in the brain, we can devise devices that span the brain, that can deliver light into three-dimensional patterns -- arrays of optical fibers, each coupled to its own independent miniature light source.	不是大脑中的某一点 我们可以发明一些能够桥接大脑的设备 来把光照射成三维的模式-- 利用光纤的巧妙排列 每个光纤都有自身独立的微型光源.
And then we can try to do things in vivo that have only been done to-date in a dish -- like high-throughput screening throughout the entire brain for the signals that can cause certain things to happen.	接着我们在生物体上试验 测试那些已经在培养皿中完成的实验-- 就像是给整个大脑做了高速的扫描一般 来确定特定的信号会触发哪些特定的事情
Or that could be good clinical targets for treating brain disorders.	或者它们会成为临床上很好的 治疗脑部疾病的新目标
And one story I want to tell you about is how can we find targets for treating post-traumatic stress disorder -- a form of uncontrolled anxiety and fear.	另外一件我想说的事是 我们如何寻找靶细胞来治疗创伤后应激障碍-- 这是一种不受控制的焦虑恐慌的症候群
And one of the things that we did was to adopt a very classical model of fear.	我们要做的一件事 接受一个经典的恐怖模式
This goes back to the Pavlovian days.	那就回到了巴甫洛夫的时代
It's called Pavlovian fear conditioning -- where a tone ends with a brief shock.	也被称作巴甫洛夫恐惧条件反射 在响声后的短暂电击
The shock isn't painful, but it's a little annoying.	电极并不疼痛，但是有点烦人
And over time -- in this case, a mouse, which is a good animal model, commonly used in such experiments -- the animal learns to fear the tone.	久而久之--这里的例子，老鼠 是一个很好的动物典型，在试验中广泛使用-- 动物学会去害怕响声
The animal will react by freezing, sort of like a deer in the headlights.	会表现出呆滞的反应 有点像鹿被车灯照射后的反应一样
Now the question is, what targets in the brain can we find that allow us to overcome this fear?	如今的问题是，大脑中哪些目标位置 能让我们克服这种恐惧？
So what we do is we play that tone again after it's been associated with fear.	我们所做的就是再一次播放那 当已经和恐惧联系起来的响声
But we activate targets in the brain, different ones, using that optical fiber array I told you about in the previous slide, in order to try and figure out which targets can cause the brain to overcome that memory of fear.	但是我们激活大脑中的靶细胞，每次不同的位置 利用光纤阵列来演示出之前那样的图片 来尝试找出能让大脑克服 恐惧记忆的靶细胞
And so this brief video shows you one of these targets that we're working on now.	这简短的录像 展示给大家一些我们正在研究的几个靶细胞
This is an area in the prefrontal cortex, a region where we can use cognition to try to overcome aversive emotional states.	这是前额皮层的一部分 一块能让我们用感知来尝试克服厌恶情绪的区域
And the animal's going to hear a tone -- and a flash of light occurred there.	动物将听到同样的响声--以及一束光线
There's no audio on this, but you can see the animal's freezing.	光线不伴随声音，但是你也能看到动物呆滞的反应
This tone used to mean bad news.	这声响意味着坏的消息
And there's a little clock in the lower left-hand corner, so you can see the animal is about two minutes into this.	在左下角有个小型的闹钟 你能看到老鼠用了大约两分钟僵立在那里
And now this next clip is just eight minutes later.	下一个片段 是八分钟之后
And the same tone is going to play, and the light is going to flash again.	同样的响声，和相同的光线再一次的出现
Okay, there it goes. Right now.	好，开始了，就现在
And now you can see, just 10 minutes into the experiment, that we've equipped the brain by photoactivating this area to overcome the expression of this fear memory.	正如你所见，只用了10分钟的实验 我们就用光激活了大脑的这部分区域 来克服恐惧记忆 的表现行为
Now over the last couple of years, we've gone back to the tree of life because we wanted to find ways to turn circuits in the brain off.	近几年里，我们正回溯本源 因为我们想找到控制大脑的方法
If we could do that, this could be extremely powerful.	如果我们能够控制的话，那就可能是极具影响的
If you can delete cells just for a few milliseconds or seconds, you can figure out what necessary role they play in the circuits in which they're embedded.	如果让细胞失效就算几毫秒或者几秒的话 就能了解到它们所在位置的脑电路 所扮演的本质的角色
And we've now surveyed organisms from all over the tree of life -- every kingdom of life except for animals, we see slightly differently.	如今我们已经调查了生物界所有的生物-- 所有生物除了动物，我们并没有发现太大的差异。
And we found all sorts of molecules, they're called halorhodopsins or archaerhodopsins, that respond to green and yellow light.	我们发现了各种各样的分子，被命名为感光紫红蛋白或者远古感光蛋白 会对绿色和黄色光线作出反应
And they do the opposite thing of the molecule I told you about before with the blue light activator channelrhodopsin.	它们的反应是与之前我所提到的蓝光 活性槽型视紫质的反应恰恰相反
Let's give an example of where we think this is going to go.	举个例子来说明具体的情况
Consider, for example, a condition like epilepsy, where the brain is overactive.	比如说癫痫这个症状 起因是大脑过度活跃
Now if drugs fail in epileptic treatment, one of the strategies is to remove part of the brain.	如果癫痫药物治疗失败 其他一种方法就是移除那部分大脑
But that's obviously irreversible, and there could be side effects.	但是这显然是不可逆的过程，而且会引起副作用
What if we could just turn off that brain for a brief amount of time, until the seizure dies away, and cause the brain to be restored to its initial state -- sort of like a dynamical system that's being coaxed down into a stable state.	那如果我们让那部分大脑休眠一会儿 知道症状全部消失 再让大脑恢复到原来的阶段-- 就好像把一个活跃的系统诱骗到一个稳定的系统一样
So this animation just tries to explain this concept where we made these cells sensitive to being turned off with light, and we beam light in, and just for the time it takes to shut down a seizure, we're hoping to be able to turn it off.	这动画只是为了解释 我们能利用光源来控制脑细胞这个概念 当我们用光照射时 照射的时间也仅仅是能够刚好让症状消除 我们希望实验能够成功
And so we don't have data to show you on this front, but we're very excited about this.	暂时我们还没有这方面的实验数据展示给大家 但是我们对此充满期待
Now I want to close on one story, which we think is another possibility -- which is that maybe these molecules, if you can do ultra-precise control, can be used in the brain itself to make a new kind of prosthetic, an optical prosthetic.	现在我想用一个故事来结束我的演讲 我们认为此技术能有其他用途--- 如果能超精确控制这些感光蛋白 能够在脑中 形成一个新型的假肢，光学的价值
I already told you that electrical stimulators are not uncommon.	我曾说过，电击器并不普遍
Seventy-five thousand people have Parkinson's deep-brain stimulators implanted.	如今只有75000位帕金森病人植入了脑部电击器
Maybe 100,000 people have Cochlear implants, which allow them to hear.	大约10万人在耳蜗中植入电击器 通过这样来恢复他们的听觉
There's another thing, which is you've got to get these genes into cells.	另一件事，就是你要让这些基因细胞移植入细胞中
And new hope in gene therapy has been developed because viruses like the adeno-associated virus, which probably most of us around this room have, and it doesn't have any symptoms, which have been used in hundreds of patients to deliver genes into the brain or the body.	基因治疗的新希望也就此诞生了 因为像腺类病毒这类病毒 可能我们大多数都有携带 但它不会引发任何症状 它已经在上百名病人体内应用治疗 来转送基因进入大脑或者身体内
And so far, there have not been serious adverse events associated with the virus.	目前为止，还有没有因为此病毒 而引起任何严重不良反应的报告
There's one last elephant in the room, the proteins themselves, which come from algae and bacteria and fungi, and all over the tree of life.	还有最后一点要重视的大隐患，就是蛋白质其本身 那些来自于藻类，细菌以及真菌 以及来自生物界的各种蛋白质
Most of us don't have fungi or algae in our brains, so what is our brain going to do if we put that in?	我们大多数脑子没有真菌或者藻类的存在 那如果我们把它们放入脑中会怎么样呢？
Are the cells going to tolerate it? Will the immune system react?	我们大脑是否会排斥它？免疫系统是否会反应？
In its early days -- these have not been done on humans yet -- but we're working on a variety of studies to try and examine this, and so far we haven't seen overt reactions of any severity to these molecules or to the illumination of the brain with light.	早期的时候--我们并没有在人体里做实验-- 但是我们做了其他各种研究 来评估这方法 目前为止，我们还没有因这些分子或者 因光照大脑 而产生的严重不良反应
So it's early days, to be upfront, but we're excited about it.	这还是初步的研究，就算如此，我们很激动
I wanted to close with one story, which we think could potentially be a clinical application.	我想用一个故事来结束我的演讲 我们认为这有可能 成为一种临床的疗法
Now there are many forms of blindness where the photoreceptors, our light sensors that are in the back of our eye, are gone.	失明有很多种类 大多关于 我们的眼球内部的光受体的损害。
And the retina, of course, is a complex structure.	我们的视网膜是个很复杂的结构
Now let's zoom in on it here, so we can see it in more detail.	我们来放大，仔细研究一下
The photoreceptor cells are shown here at the top, and then the signals that are detected by the photoreceptors are transformed by various computations until finally that layer of cells at the bottom, the ganglion cells, relay the information to the brain, where we see that as perception.	照片中的感光受体在顶部 被感光受体接收到的光信号 经过各种转化 最终从上而下，从神经节细胞 传输信息到大脑出 以此来获得视觉
In many forms of blindness, like retinitis pigmentosa, or macular degeneration, the photoreceptor cells have atrophied or been destroyed.	很多种类的失明，比如色素性视网膜炎 或者黄斑部变性 感光细胞是萎缩或者有损伤的
Now how could you repair this?	那我们如何才能修复呢？
It's not even clear that a drug could cause this to be restored, because there's nothing for the drug to bind to.	还没有证据证明药物可以对治疗这些疾病 因为还没有针对的特效药
On the other hand, light can still get into the eye.	但是，光还是能进入眼球的
The eye is still transparent and you can get light in.	眼球还是通透的，你也能看到光线能够进入
So what if we could just take these channelrhodopsins and other molecules and install them on some of these other spare cells and convert them into little cameras.	所以，如果我们能把这些单细胞感光紫红质蛋白和其他分子 注入到那些正常的细胞中 把它们转化为一台台小的摄像机
And because there's so many of these cells in the eye, potentially, they could be very high-resolution cameras.	因为眼球内部有很多细胞 有可能，他们会成为高清的相机
So this is some work that we're doing.	这就是我们所在做的
It's being led by one of our collaborators, Alan Horsager at USC, and being sought to be commercialized by a start-up company Eos Neuroscience, which is funded by the NIH.	我们合作人之一 艾伦·霍斯葛 也正在美国卫生研究所的资助下将其技术 商业化运作
And what you see here is a mouse trying to solve a maze.	现在你所看到的是一个走迷宫的老鼠
It's a six-arm maze. And there's a bit of water in the maze to motivate the mouse to move, or he'll just sit there.	这是六臂的迷宫，迷宫中有些许水 来刺激老鼠移动，否则它只会呆在某处
And the goal, of course, of this maze is to get out of the water and go to a little platform that's under the lit top port.	当然，这迷宫的目的 是为了让水流入一个 顶光源的平台
Now mice are smart, so this mouse solves the maze eventually, but he does a brute-force search.	老鼠很聪明，最终走出了这迷宫 但是这是靠蛮力解决的
He's swimming down every avenue until he finally gets to the platform.	它游过了每条分支最终才找到了平台
So he's not using vision to do it.	所以它没有利用视觉来解决这问题
These different mice are different mutations that recapitulate different kinds of blindness that affect humans.	这些老鼠有着不一样的突变基因 各自代表着人类不用种类的失明症状
And so we're being careful in trying to look at these different models so we come up with a generalized approach.	所以我们有很小心的探索不同种类的失明情况下 找出一个普遍的解决方法
So how are we going to solve this?	那我们如何解决呢？
We're going to do exactly what we outlined in the previous slide.	我们就完全按照之前片子里讲的那样
We're going to take these blue light photosensors and install them on a layer of cells in the middle of the retina in the back of the eye and convert them into a camera -- just like installing solar cells all over those neurons to make them light sensitive.	把蓝光感光蛋白 注入到眼球最后方的视网膜的 一层细胞上 把它们转化为一台台相机 就好像这些神经元上布满了太阳能细胞一样 让它们接受光信号
Light is converted to electricity on them.	并把光信号转化为电信号
So this mouse was blind a couple weeks before this experiment and received one dose of this photosensitive molecule in a virus.	这老鼠实验前几周就瞎了 只接受过一次携带有感光受体分子的病毒注射
And now you can see, the animal can indeed avoid walls and go to this little platform and make cognitive use of its eyes again.	你现在可以看到，老鼠能够避开墙壁 找到有亮光的平台 视觉得到了恢复
And to point out the power of this: these animals are able to get to that platform just as fast as animals that have seen their entire lives.	为了指出其中的意义： 这些动物走到平台的时间 和那些没有瞎的东西用时是一样的
So this pre-clinical study, I think, bodes hope for the kinds of things we're hoping to do in the future.	虽然还处于临床前阶段 但是我认为这是个好兆头 未来我们希望我们能够成功
To close, I want to point out that we're also exploring new business models for this new field of neurotechnology.	最后，我想指出我们正研究的一种 针对神经科学这新领域的商业模式
We're developing these tools, but we share them freely with hundreds of groups all over the world, so people can study and try to treat different disorders.	我们发明了这些工具 但是我们愿意和全世界的人共同分享 这样人们才能进一步研究并尝试治疗其他各种疾病
And our hope is that, by figuring out brain circuits at a level of abstraction that lets us repair them and engineer them, we can take some of these intractable disorders that I told you about earlier, practically none of which are cured, and in the 21st century make them history.	我们希望，通过了解大脑的神经网络 通过某种程度的手术，能让我们修复并设计神经网络 我们会继续研究我之前讲过的几种疾病 特别是那几种从未被治愈过的 他们在21世纪将会成为历史
Thank you.	谢谢
Juan Enriquez: So some of the stuff is a little dense.	Juan Enriquez：您的演讲有些深奥啊。
But the implications of being able to control seizures or epilepsy with light instead of drugs, and being able to target those specifically is a first step.	但是利用光 来控制癫痫或者抽搐 而不是用药物 还要能够精确地控制靶细胞 是第一步。
The second thing that I think I heard you say is you can now control the brain in two colors, like an on/off switch.	据我所听到的，第二步 是用两种色彩的光来控制大脑 就好像开关一样
Ed Boyden: That's right.	艾德·博伊登:没错.
JE: Which makes every impulse going through the brain a binary code.	JE：这让每个大脑中的神经冲动变成二进制的代码
Right, yeah.	EB：是的
So with blue light, we can drive information, and it's in the form of a one.	当蓝灯亮起时，我们能传输信息。就类似于代码1
And by turning things off, it's more or less a zero.	等光关闭了，就类似代码0
So our hope is to eventually build brain coprocessors that work with the brain so we can augment functions in people with disabilities.	我们的希望是最终建造一个大脑协同处理器 来和大脑一起运作 以此来帮助那些有残疾的人
JE: And in theory, that means that, as a mouse feels, smells, hears, touches, you can model it out as a string of ones and zeros.	那就是理论上，这代表着 老鼠的感觉，嗅觉 听觉和触觉 你都能把它整合到一串0和1
Sure, yeah. We're hoping to use this as a way of testing what neural codes can drive certain behaviors and certain thoughts and certain feelings, and use that to understand more about the brain.	EB：的确是这样的。我们希望通过这种测试 来确定哪种神经代码代表着哪种行为举止 或者是想法或者感受 通过这样来更多的了解大脑
JE: Does that mean that some day you could download memories and maybe upload them?	JE：这是不是意味着某天你能下载记忆 或者上传记忆呢？
Well that's something we're starting to work on very hard.	EB：我们着手的某些工作是很复杂的
We're now working on some work where we're trying to tile the brain with recording elements too.	我们还在继续的研究 我们也在尝试去标记下这个大脑记录数据
So we can record information and then drive information back in -- sort of computing what the brain needs in order to augment its information processing.	我们就能记录信息，并把信息传输回大脑-- 类似于了解什么是大脑所需的 来增强它的信息处理效率.
JE: Well, that might change a couple things. Thank you.	JE: 嗯，这会改变我的世界的。谢谢!
I started with paragliding.	我是从高崖跳伞开始我的特技生涯的。
Paragliding is taking off from mountains with a paraglider, with the possibility to fly cross-country, distance, just with the use of thermals to soar.	高崖跳伞就是利用滑翔降落伞从高山上 跳下，高崖跳伞可以让你 穿越乡间，并且飞得更远， 而且仅仅利用热空气来让你飞行。
Also different aerobatic maneuvers are possible with a paraglider.	滑翔降落伞可以在空中提供 更多的机动性。
From there I started with skydiving.	自那以后我开始从事高空跳伞。
In this picture you can see there is a four-way skydive, four people flying together, and on the left hand side it's the camera flier with the camera mounted to his helmet so he can film the whole jump, for the film itself and also for the judging.	从这张照片你可以看到 这个是四人式跳伞， 四个人一块儿下落， 左手边的跳伞员负责摄像机 他的头盔上设有一个摄像机 所以他就可以拍摄整个跳伞过程， 拍摄的目的不仅仅是为了拍摄还为了事后对录像进行分析。
From regular, relative skydiving I went on to freeflying.	从一般的特技跳伞开始，我逐渐 开始转向自由式跳伞。
Freeflying is more the three-dimensional skydiving.	自由式跳伞更加强调了对三维空间的运用。
You can see the skydiver with the red suit, he's in a stand-up position.	你可以看见穿红色跳伞服的跳伞员， 他的下落姿势是站立式的。
The one with the yellow-green suit, he's flying head-down.	穿黄绿相间跳伞服的， 是倒立式下落的。
And that's me in the background, carving around the whole formation in freefall also, with the helmet cam to film this jump.	背后的那个人是我，围绕着中间两个人转 同样是自由落体，也同样戴了一个头盔摄像机 在拍摄这次跳伞。
From freeflying I went on to skysurfing.	从自由式跳伞我又开始空中滑板，
Skysurfing is skydiving with a board on the feet.	空中滑板就是高空跳伞的同时在脚上加一块滑板。
You can imagine with this big surface of a skysurfing board, there is a lot of force, a lot of power.	显而易见，因为滑板巨大的 接触面积， 可以在下落过程中提供很大的上升力。
Of course I can use this power for example for nice spinning -- we call it "helicopter moves."	当然我可以利用这种力 做出各种动作 －我们管这个动作叫直升机式。
From there I went on to wingsuit flying.	然后我又开始翼服飞行。
Wingsuit flying is a suit, that I can make fly, just only with my body.	翼服飞行是利用翼服， 实现仅仅利用身体就可以飞行。
If I put some tension on my body, tension on my suit, I can make it fly. And as you see the fall rate is much much slower because of the bigger surface.	假如我用我的身体给翼服增大张力， 我就可以飞行了。显而易见， 翼服飞行的下坠速度要明显得慢 就是因为翼服增大了与空气得接触面积。
With a proper body position I'm able to really move forward to gain quite some distance.	假如动作标准我就可以往前飞行 得很远。
This is a jump I did in Rio de Janeiro.	这是我在里约热内卢的一跳。
You can see the Copacabana on the left-hand side.	你可以看到我的左手边是科巴卡巴纳海滩。
From there with all the skills and knowledge from paragliding and all the different disciplines in skydiving, I went on to BASE jumping.	从那以后我利用了从高崖跳伞到现在 学到的所有知识和技巧以及不同的飞行规则， 我开始了低空跳伞。
BASE jumping is skydiving from fixed objects, like buildings, antennae, bridges and earth -- meaning mountains, cliffs.	低空跳伞那是从固定的物体上跳伞， 比如说，房屋，天线，桥和大地 － 所谓大地就是高山和悬崖。
It's for sure -- for me -- it's the ultimate feeling of being in free fall, with all the visual references.	对我来说这绝对是 在自由落体的同时 又能利用周边环境做参照物的最好的感觉了。
So my goal soon was to discover new places that nobody had jumped before.	所以我的目标是尽快找到 从来没有人跳过的地方。
So in summer 2000 I was the first to BASE jump the Eiger North Face in Switzerland.	2000年的夏天我是第一个 从瑞士Eiger山北面低空跳伞的人。
Two years after this, I was the first to BASE jump from Matterhorn, a very famous mountain that probably everybody knows in here.	两年后，我是第一个从Matterhorn跳下的人， Matterhorn是一个大概 在座每位都知道的山。
2005 I did a BASE jump from the Eiger, from the Monk and from the Jungfrau, three very famous mountains in Switzerland.	2005年我从Eiger, Monk 和 Jungfrau 三座在瑞士非常有名的山跳下。
The special thing on these three jumps were, I hiked them all and climbed them all in only one day.	从这三处跳下的特别之处在于， 我仅花一天就爬上了那些山。
In 2008 I jumped the Eiffel Tower in Paris.	2008年我从巴黎埃菲尔铁塔上跳下。
So with all this knowledge, I also wanted to get into stunts.	（众笑） 随着我知识的增长，我又 想从事特技表演。
So with some friends we started to do different tricks, like for example this jump here, I jumped from a paraglider.	我和几个朋友一起开始做各种各样的特技， 比如说从这里跳下， 我从一个滑翔伞上跳下。
Or here -- everybody was freezing, pretty much, except me, because it was very cold in Austria where we did this filming.	或者说从这里，每个人都冻得不行了，除了我， 因为我们的拍摄地， 奥地利很冷。
Everybody sitting in a basket, and I was on top of the balloon, ready to slide down with my skysurf board.	所有人都待在热气球的架子里， 我则在热气球的顶端， 准备从顶端用高空滑板上滑下。
Or this jump, from a moving truck on the highway.	还有这一跳，从高速公路上行驶的货车上跳下。
Extreme sports on top level like this is only possible if you practice step by step, if you really work hard on your skills and on your knowledge.	（众笑） 像这样难度最高的极限运动 必须从头开始一步一步地练习， 假如说你努力学习技巧 并且掌握足够的知识（才能从事这样的运动）。
Of course you need to be in physical, very good, condition, so I'm training a lot.	当然你需要保持非常好的身体状况（才能从事这样的运动）， 所以我平时花很多时间进行身体训练。
You need to have the best possible equipment.	你同样还需要最顶尖的器材。
And probably the most important is you have to work on your mental skills, mental preparation.	然而最重要的是 你要学会控制你的意识力，精神力。
And all this to come as close as possible to the human dream of being able to fly.	这些加起来你就可以尽可能地 达到人类能够飞行的梦想。
So for 2009, I'm training hard for my two new projects.	从2009年， 我在刻苦训练准备我的下两项项目。
The first one, I want to set a world record in flying from a cliff with my wingsuit.	第一个，我想打破 一个从悬崖上跳下的翼服飞行的世界纪录。
And I want to set a new record, with the longest distance ever flown.	这个世界纪录， 是用翼服飞行能够滑翔距离最长的纪录。
For my second project, I have a sensational idea of a jump that never has been done before.	我的第二个项目， 是一个轰动性的主意， 是从一个从来没有人跳过的地方跳下。
So now, on the following movie you will see that I'm much better in flying a wingsuit than speaking in English.	所以从接下来的一段影片众中将看到 我翼服飞行的能力 要比说英语的能力好得多。
Enjoy, and thank you very much.	希望你们喜欢，谢谢。
I have some questions.	（观众鼓掌） （观众鼓掌） 我有一些问题。
I think we all might have some questions.	我认为我们都有一些问题。
Question one: so does that actually feel the way the flying dream does?	第一个问题，翼服飞行的感觉 是不是和人类真正飞翔的梦想一样？
Because it looks like it might.	因为看起来很像。
Ueli Gegenschatz: Pretty much. I believe this is probably the closest possibility to come to the dream of being able to fly.	Ueli Gegenschatz：是很像。我认为这可能是当今 离人类飞翔的最为接近的感觉了吧。
I know the answer to this, but how do you land?	我知道这个问题的答案但是我仍旧想问，你如何降落？
UE: Parachute. We have to open a parachute just seconds before, I would say, impact.	UE: 降落伞。我们必须在， 用我的话来说，"撞击"的前几秒钟内打开降落伞。
It's not possible to land a wingsuit yet.	（众笑） 现在还不能只用翼服就能降落。
Yet. But people are trying. Are you among those -- you're not going to commit -- are you among those trying to do it?	"还不能"。但是人们正在努力实现这个梦想，你是不是其中之一？ 你不是其中之一，那你是不是希望实现这个梦想的人之一呢？
UE: It's a dream. It's a dream. Yeah.	UE: 这是一个梦想。
We're still working on it and we're developing the wingsuits to get better performance, to get more knowledge.	我们仍旧在研发 性能更加好的翼服， 并且学到了许多。
And I believe soon.	我相信在不久的未来。
All right. Well we will watch this space. But I have two more questions.	好的。我们拭目以待。但我仍旧有两个问题。
What is the -- there was exhaust coming out of the back of the wingsuit. Was that a propelled wingsuit that you were wearing?	那个从你身后放出的 尾气。是不是因为你的翼服有驱动功能？
UE: Nope. It's just smoke.	UE: 不是。只不过是烟雾而已。
Coming off of you?	从你身上放出来的？
UE: Hopefully not.	（众笑） UE: 但愿不是。
That seems dangerous.	（众笑） 这个看上去很危险。
UE: No, smoke is for two reasons, you can see the speed, you can see the way where I was flying.	UE: 不危险，烟雾有两个作用， 你可以从烟雾来估测飞行速度，你同样可以 看见我的飞行轨迹。
That's reason number one. And reason number two: it's much easier for the camera guy to film If I'm using smoke.	这是第一个作用。第二个作用， 假如我用烟雾，摄像师可以 更加有效方便地跟踪我
Ah, I see. So the wingsuit is set up to deliberately release smoke so that you can be tracked. One more question.	啊，我知道了。你故意让翼服放出烟雾 所以你就更加容易被跟踪。再有一个问题。
What do you do to to cover your face?	你用什么来遮盖你的脸？
Because I just keep thinking of going that fast and having your whole face smushed backwards.	因为我在想假如你飞得那么快 你的脸肯定会被风压得不行。
Are you in a helmet? Are you in goggles?	你是不是要戴头盔？或者你只带飞行眼镜？
UE: The purest and the best feeling would be with only goggles.	UE: 最美好，最纯粹的飞行感觉是只戴飞行眼镜。
And is that how you usually fly?	那你平时是不是只戴飞行眼镜？
UE: Usually I'm wearing a helmet. In the mountains I'm always wearing a helmet because of landings -- usually it's difficult -- it's not like regular skydiving where you have like the big landings.	UE: 我通常要戴头盔。在山沟中穿梭的话我一直戴头盔 因为降落通常很困难 与普通跳伞不同，普通跳伞有很大的空地让你着路。（而山里却没有空地）
So you have to be prepared.	所以你必须要戴头盔以防万一。
Right. Now is there anything you don't do?	对的。现在你是不是会有一些特技你不会去尝试？
Do people come to you with projects and say, "We want you to do this!"	会不会有人拿着一些项目来跟你说："我要你做这个！"
and do you ever say, "No, no I'm not going to."	你是不是会拒绝他们？
UE: Oh of course, of course. Some people have crazy ideas and -- ...a round of applause...	UE: 当然了，当然了。有些人很疯狂…… （众笑） 大家再次掌声感谢……
UE: Thank you very much.	（观众鼓掌） UE:非常感谢。
	（观众鼓掌）
What I want to do this afternoon is something a little different than what's scheduled.	今天下午，我想做些 和预订计划稍微不同的事
Foreign policy, you can figure that out by watching, I don't know, Rachel Maddow or somebody, but — — I want to talk about young people and structure, young people and structure.	若想了解外交政策 你们可以欣赏，我不知道，Rachel Maddow 或某人的节目 但－－ 我想谈论的是年轻人和结构 年轻人和结构
This was last Wednesday afternoon at a school in Brooklyn, New York, at Cristo Rey High School, run by the Jesuits.	这是上周三下午 在纽约布鲁克林区一所学校 由耶稣会经营的Cristo Rey高中
And I was talking to this group of students, and take a look at them.	当时我对这群学生演讲，并观察他们
They were around me in three directions.	他们以三个方向环绕着我
You'll noticed that almost all of them are minority.	你们注意到他们几乎都是少数族群
You'll notice that the building is rather austere.	你们注意到这栋建筑十分简陋
It's an old New York school building, nothing fancy.	这是一栋老旧的纽约校舍，十分简朴
They still have old blackboards and whatnot.	他们仍使用旧式黑板等设备
And there are about 300 kids in this school, and the school's been going now for four years, and they're about to graduate their first class.	大约300名孩子在这所学校就读 这所学校已成立四年 首届学生即将毕业
Twenty-two people are graduating, and all 22 are going to college.	毕业生共有二十二人 二十二人都会上大学
They all come from homes where there is, for the most part, just one person in the home, usually the mother or the grandmother, and that's it, and they come here for their education and for their structure.	他们全都来自于－大多来自于 只有一位亲人的家庭 通常是母亲或祖母，仅此而已 他们来这里接受教育 及结构训练
Now I had this picture taken, and it was put up on my Facebook page last week, and somebody wrote in, "Huh, why does he have him standing at attention like that?"	我拍了这张相片 上星期贴上我的Facebook页面 有人留言说 "哼，他为何让他像这样立正？"
And then they said, "But he looks good."	接着写道，"但他看起来不错"
He does look good, because kids need structure, and the trick I play in all of my school appearances is that when I get through with my little homily to the kids, I then invite them to ask questions, and when they raise their hands, I say, "Come up," and I make them come up and stand in front of me.	他看起来确实不错，因为孩子需要结构 我每次造访学校，必定会玩个把戏 当我稍微向孩子们说教后 接着会邀请他们发问 当他们举起手时，我会说，"到台上来" 让他们在我面前站好
I make them stand at attention like a soldier.	我让他们像士兵一样立正
Put your arms straight down at your side, look up, open your eyes, stare straight ahead, and speak out your question loudly so everybody can hear.	双臂笔直地贴在身侧 抬头挺胸、睁大双眼、直视前方 大声说出问题，让每个人都能听见
No slouching, no pants hanging down, none of that stuff.	不可弯腰驼背 不可衣衫不整地穿垮裤等
And this young man, his name is -- his last name Cruz -- he loved it. That's all over his Facebook page and it's gone viral.	这位年轻人，名字是－他姓Cruz－ 他爱极了，在Facebook上 大肆宣扬，使这件事广为流传
So people think I'm being unkind to this kid.	所以人们认为我刁难这个孩子
No, we're having a little fun.	并非如此，我们乐在其中
And the thing about it, I've done this for years, the younger they are, the more fun it is.	至于这样的事，我已行之多年 在年纪越小的孩子身上效果越有趣
When I get six- and seven-year-olds in a group, I have to figure out how to keep them quiet.	当我面对一群六、七岁的孩子时 必须设法让他们安静下来
You know that they'll always start yakking.	你们知道，他们总是聒噪不休
And so I play a little game with them before I make them stand at attention.	因此我先和他们玩个小游戏 才让他们立正站好
I say, "Now listen. In the army, when we want you to pay attention, we have a command. It's called 'at ease.' It means everybody be quiet and pay attention. Listen up.	我说，"听着，在军队里" 当我们希望你集中注意力时 我们有个口令，叫做"稍息" 表示每个人都得安静并留意，专心聆听
Do you understand?"	"明白吗？"
"Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.""Let's practice. Everybody start chatting."	"嗯哼、嗯哼、嗯哼" "让我们做个练习，大家开始聊天"
And I let them go for about 10 seconds, then I go, "At ease!"	我让他们吵大约十秒钟 然后大喊，"稍息！"
"Huh!"	"啊！"
"Yes, General. Yes, General."	"是，将军。是，将军"
Try it with your kids. See if it works.	不妨在你们孩子身上试试，看看是否奏效
I don't think so.	我想不太可能
But anyway, it's a game I play, and it comes obviously from my military experience.	总之这是我玩的一个游戏，显然这来自于 我的军事生涯体验
Because for the majority of my adult life, I worked with young kids, teenagers with guns, I call them.	因为我成年后大半时光 都和年轻人共事，我称他们为"持枪青年"
And we would bring them into the army, and the first thing we would do is to put them in an environment of structure, put them in ranks, make them all wear the same clothes, cut all their hair off so they look alike, make sure that they are standing in ranks.	我们将他们带入军队 我们所做的第一件事，就是将他们 放入组织境里，将他们放入行伍中 让他们全都穿着相同服装 剃短头发，让他们看起来如出一辙 确保他们能列队站好
We teach them how to go right face, left face, so they can obey instructions and know the consequences of not obeying instructions.	我们教他们如何向右转、向左转 让他们服从指示 了解不服从指示的后果
It gives them structure.	这让他们明白何谓组织结构
And then we introduce them to somebody who they come to hate immediately, the drill sergeant.	然后向他们介绍一位 他们立刻会痛恨的人，士官长
And they hate him.	他们对他恨之入骨
And the drill sergeant starts screaming at them, and telling them to do all kinds of awful things.	士官长开始对他们大声呼喊 命令他们做各种难为的事
But then the most amazing thing happens over time.	但随着时光流逝 最令人惊异的事逐渐发生
Once that structure is developed, once they understand the reason for something, once they understand, "Mama ain't here, son.	一旦发展出那种组织结构 一旦他们明白某件事的道理 一旦他们明白，"妈妈不在这里，孩子"
I'm your worst nightmare. I'm your daddy and your mommy.	"我是你们最糟的噩梦，我是你们的父母"
And that's just the way it is. You got that, son?	"明白吗？ 事实就是如此，了解吗，孩子？"
Yeah, and then when I ask you a question, there are only three possible answers: yes, sir; no, sir; and no excuse, sir.	"当我问你们问题时，只有三个可能答案" "是，长官；不，长官；没有理由，长官"
Don't start telling me why you didn't do something.	"别告诉我为何你们没做到某件事"
It's yes, sir; no, sir; no excuse, sir."	"你只能回答：是，长官； 不，长官；没有理由，长官"
"You didn't shave.""But sir —" "No, don't tell me how often you scraped your face this morning.	"你没刮胡子" "但长官－" "不，别告诉我你今早老是刮伤脸皮"
I'm telling you you didn't shave."	"我说的是你没刮胡子"
"No excuse, sir.""Attaboy, you're learning fast."	"没有理由，长官" "好小子，算你识相"
But you'd be amazed at what you can do with them once you put them in that structure.	但你会惊讶于能让他们做到的事 一旦你将他们放入那个组织结构中后
In 18 weeks, they have a skill. They are mature.	十八周后，他们会拥有 一身本领，他们会变得成熟
And you know what, they come to admire the drill sergeant and they never forget the drill sergeant.	知道吗？他们开始钦佩士官长 他们对士官长永难忘怀
They come to respect him.	他们开始尊敬他
And so we need more of this kind of structure and respect in the lives of our children.	因此我们需要将更多这种结构和尊敬 灌输到孩子的生活中
I spend a lot of time with youth groups, and I say to people, "When does the education process begin?"	我花了很多时间和年轻人相处 当我询问人们，"教育过程从何时开始？"
We're always talking about, "Let's fix the schools.	大家总是说，"让我们改善学校"
Let's do more for our teachers. Let's put more computers in our schools.	"让我们为教师提供更多方案 让我们在学校装设更多计算机"
Let's get it all online."	"让我们将一切放上网络"
That isn't the whole answer. It's part of the answer.	那并非全部答案，仅是部分答案
But the real answer begins with bringing a child to the school with structure in that child's heart and soul to begin with.	但真正答案从孩子入学开始 将组织结构的概念灌输到孩子心灵中
When does the learning process begin? Does it begin in first grade?	学习过程从何时开始？从一年级开始吗？
No, no, it begins the first time a child in a mother's arms looks up at the mother and says, "Oh, this must be my mother.	不，不，它开始于 孩子第一次在母亲怀中 仰视母亲时 心想，"喔，这必定是我的母亲"
She's the one who feeds me.	"她是抚育我的人"
Oh yeah, when I don't feel so good down there, she takes care of me.	"喔，是的，当我不舒服时" "她会照料我"
It's her language I will learn."	"我将学习她的语言"
And at that moment they shut out all the other languages that they could be learning at that age, but by three months, that's her.	那时，他们会将所有 那个年纪能学习的其他语言 都拒之门外 在最初三个月中，只听得进她的语言
And if the person doing it, whether it's the mother or grandmother, whoever's doing it, that is when the education process begins.	如果做这件事的人，无论是母亲 或祖母，无论做这件事的人是谁 那就是教育过程的开始
That's when language begins.	那就是语言的开始
That's when love begins. That's when structure begins.	那就是爱的开始，那就是结构的开始
That's when you start to imprint on the child that "you are special, you are different from every other child in the world.	那就是当你开始对孩子灌输 "你是特别的" "你和世上任何其他孩子都不同"
And we're going to read to you."	"我们会念书给你听"
A child who has not been read to is in danger when that child gets to school.	不曾听过他人念书的孩子 入学后将处于风险中
A child who doesn't know his or her colors or doesn't know how to tell time, doesn't know how to tie shoes, doesn't know how to do those things, and doesn't know how to do something that goes by a word that was drilled into me as a kid: mind.	一位不知道自己肤色的孩子 或不知道如何看时间，不知道如何系鞋带 不知道如何做那些事 不知道如何遵守 自小就扎根于我脑海的字眼：注意
Mind your manners! Mind your adults! Mind what you're saying!	注意你的举止！ 注意身边的大人！注意你说的话！
This is the way children are raised properly.	这就是正确教养孩子的方式
And I watched my own young grandchildren now come along and they're, much to the distress of my children, they are acting just like we did. You know? You imprint them.	当我现在观察自己年幼孙辈的言行 他们令我的孩子苦恼万分 他们的反应就像当年的我们 知道吗？你们让他们深受影响
And that's what you have to do to prepare children for education and for school.	你们必须做的事 就是让孩子为接受教育和上学做准备
And I'm working at all the energy I have to sort of communicate this message that we need preschool, we need Head Start, we need prenatal care.	现在，我竭尽所能地 宣扬这个讯息 我们需要学前教育，我们需要启蒙计划 我们需要胎教
The education process begins even before the child is born, and if you don't do that, you're going to have difficulty.	教育过程甚至在孩子诞生之前已经开始 如果不这么做，将会面临困境
And we are having difficulties in so many of our communities and so many of our schools where kids are coming to first grade and their eyes are blazing, they've got their little knapsack on and they're ready to go, and then they realize they're not like the other first graders who know books, have been read to, can do their alphabet.	许多小区面临这些困境 许多学校中的孩子 成为一年级新生时，他们双眼发亮 他们背上小背包，准备上学 然后发现自己不像其他一年级生一样 熟知书中内容 他们已经听过，看得懂英文字母
And by the third grade, the kids who didn't have that structure and minding in the beginning start to realize they're behind, and what do they do?	到了三年级，那些一开始缺乏 那种结构和思维的孩子 开始意识到自己落后他人，他们怎么做？
They act it out. They act it out, and they're on their way to jail or they're on their way to being dropouts.	他们表现脱轨行为，然后踏上 通往监狱之路，或踏上辍学之路
It's predictable.	这是意料之事
If you're not at the right reading level at third grade, you are a candidate for jail at age 18, and we have the highest incarceration rate because we're not getting our kids the proper start in life.	如果到了三年级时，你的阅读能力不及格 到了十八岁，就是入狱的候选者 我们拥有最高的入监率 因为我们没有 让孩子的生命拥有正确的开始
The last chapter in my book is called "The Gift of a Good Start."	我的著作中最后一章，标题为 "以好的开始作礼物"
The gift of a good start. Every child ought to have a good start in life.	以好的开始作礼物 每个孩子的生命都应该拥有好的开始
I was privileged to have that kind of good start.	我有幸拥有这种好的开始
I was not a great student.	我并非一位杰出学生
I was a public school kid in New York City, and I didn't do well at all.	我就读于纽约市一所公立学校 各方面表现都不佳
I have my entire New York City Board of Education transcript from kindergarten through college.	我从纽约市教育局取得一份 从幼儿园到大学的完整成绩单
I wanted it when I was writing my first book.	于撰写第一本着作时申请
I wanted to see if my memory was correct, and, my God, it was.	我想知道我的记忆是否正确 天哪，确实如此
Straight C everywhere.	从头到尾都是C
And I finally bounced through high school, got into the City College of New York with a 78.3 average, which I shouldn't have been allowed in with, and then I started out in engineering, and that only lasted six months.	我终于在高中时期翻身 进入纽约市立学院 以平均78.3分的成绩 我本来应该无法录取 我最初主修工程学 仅持续了六个月
And then I went into geology, "rocks for jocks." This is easy.	然后转攻地质学 "捡石头运动"，简单极了
And then I found ROTC.	然后我发现ROTC
I found something that I did well and something that I loved doing, and I found a group of youngsters like me who felt the same way.	我发现某样我擅长且喜欢的事 我发现一群志同道合的年轻人
And so my whole life then was dedicated to ROTC and the military.	因此我将毕生奉献于ROTC和军方
And I say to young kids everywhere, as you're growing up and as this structure is being developed inside of you, always be looking for that which you do well and that which you love doing, and when you find those two things together, man, you got it.	我经常对年轻人说，随着年龄增长 随着这种结构在你身上成长茁壮 努力不懈地寻找你所擅长及喜爱的事 当你发现两者吻合时，老兄，你找到了
That's what's going on. And that's what I found.	这就是我的经历，这就是我的领悟
Now the authorities at CCNY were getting tired of me being there.	此时，纽约市立学院 越来越厌倦我的存在
I'd been there four and a half going on five years, and my grades were not doing particularly well, and I was in occasional difficulties with the administration.	我在那里读了四年半，将近五年 我的成绩不甚理想 我和校方不时有些摩擦
And so they said, "But he does so well in ROTC.	因此他们说，"但他在ROTC表现优异"
Look, he gets straight A's in that but not in anything else."	"看，他在那方面 全都拿A，但其他方面都不行"
And so they said, "Look, let's take his ROTC grades and roll them into his overall GPA and see what happens."	因此他们说： "好，我们不妨采用他的ROTC成绩" "并入大学平均成绩 ，看看情况如何"
And they did, and it brought me up to 2.0.	他们这么做了，使我的GPA上升到2.0
Yep.	没错
They said, "It's good enough for government work.	他们说，"这个成绩足以进政府单位"
Give him to the army. We'll never see him again. We'll never see him again."	"把他送入军队 我们再也不会见到他，我们再也不会见到他"
So they shipped me off to the army, and lo and behold, many years later, I'm considered one of the greatest sons the City College of New York has ever had.	因此他们把我送入军队 瞧，多年后 我被认为是纽约市立学院 最杰出的校友之一
So, I tell young people everywhere, it ain't where you start in life, it's what you do with life that determines where you end up in life, and you are blessed to be living in a country that, no matter where you start, you have opportunities so long as you believe in yourself, you believe in the society and the country, and you believe that you can self-improve and educate yourself as you go along.	因此，我经常对年轻人说 并非生命的起点 而是你如何挥洒生命 决定了生命的结果 你有幸生活在这个国家 无论从何处起步，都拥有机会 只要你相信自己 相信这个社会和国家 相信你可以自我提升 随时自我教育
And that's the key to success.	那就是成功的关键
But it begins with the gift of a good start.	但这始于好的开始这份礼物
If we don't give that gift to each and every one of our kids, if we don't invest at the earliest age, we're going to be running into difficulties.	如果我们不将这份礼物给予每一位孩子 如果我们不在最早阶段进行投资 我们将面临困境
It's why we have a dropout rate of roughly 25 percent overall and almost 50 percent of our minority population living in low-income areas, because they're not getting the gift of a good start.	这就是整体辍学率将近25 %的原因 将近50 %少数族群 生活在低收入地区 因为他们得不到好的开始这份礼物
My gift of a good start was not only being in a nice family, a good family, but having a family that said to me, "Now listen, we came to this country in banana boats in 1920 and 1924.	我拥有好的开始这份礼物 不仅是诞生于不错的家庭 好的家庭，还有会对我这么说的家人 "听着，我们乘着香蕉船来到这个国家" "在1920和1924年"
We worked like dogs down in the garment industry every single day.	"我们每天在成衣厂做牛做马"
We're not doing it so that you can stick something up your nose or get in trouble. And don't even think about dropping out."	"我们这么做不是为了让你吸毒" "或惹是生非，更别动辍学的念头"
If I had ever gone home and told those immigrant people that, "You know, I'm tired of school and I'm dropping out," they'd said, "We're dropping you out. We'll get another kid."	如果我胆敢对身为移民的父母说 "你们知道吗？我厌倦了学校，打算辍学" 他们会说，"我们打算 和你断绝关系，就当没生过这个孩子"
They had expectations for all of the cousins and the extended family of immigrants that lived in the South Bronx, but they had more than just expectations for us.	他们对所有表亲 甚至住在 南布朗克斯的远亲移民都有所期许 但他们对我们的期许不仅于此
They stuck into our hearts like a dagger a sense of shame: "Don't you shame this family."	他们将羞耻心 彷佛匕首般地刺进我们心坎 "别让家族蒙羞"
Sometimes I would get in trouble, and my parents were coming home, and I was in my room waiting for what's going to happen, and I would sit there saying to myself, "Okay, look, take the belt and hit me, but, God, don't give me that 'shame the family' bit again."	有时我会惹麻烦 我父母会连忙赶回家 我待在自己房间里，等待后续发展 我独自坐着，对自己说，"好" "拿起皮带狠狠打我一顿，但－" 天哪，别再说什么'让家族蒙羞'了"
It devastated me when my mother did that to me.	当母亲这么对我说时，总是令我大受打击
And I also had this extended network.	我也拥有一个广大的网络
Children need a network. Children need to be part of a tribe, a family, a community.	孩子需要一个网络，孩子需要成为族群 家庭和小区的一份子
In my case it was aunts who lived in all of these tenement buildings.	以我的情况来说 就是住在所有廉价公寓中的阿姨
I don't know how many of you are New Yorkers, but there were these tenement buildings, and these women were always hanging out one of the windows, leaning on a pillow.	我不知道在座有多少是纽约人 但纽约市有些廉价公寓 这些女人总是望着窗外 倚着枕头
They never left.	她们从不离开
I, so help me God, I grew up walking those streets, and they were always there.	老天保佑，我在这些街道上长大 她们总是存在
They never went to the bathroom. They never cooked.	她们从不上厕所、从不煮饭
They never did anything.	她们什么也不干
But what they did was keep us in play.	但她们所做的就是让我们守法守分
They kept us in play.	她们不断地让我们守法守分
And they didn't care whether you became a doctor or a lawyer or a general, and they never expected any generals in the family, as long as you got an education and then you got a job.	她们不在乎 你是否成为医生、律师或将军 她们不曾期望家族中出个将军 只要你接受教育，然后找一份工作
"Don't give us any of that self-actualization stuff.	"别跟我们谈什么自我实现的理想"
You get a job and get out of the house.	"只要找份工作，搬出家门"
We don't have time to waste for that.	"我们没时间浪费在那种事上"
And then you can support us. That's the role of you guys."	"之后你就可以支持我们 这就是你们这些孩子的责任"
And so, it's so essential that we kind of put this culture back into our families, all families.	因此，这是相当重要的一点 我们应该将这种文化 导回我们的家庭，所有家庭
And it is so important that all of you here today who are successful people, and I'm sure have wonderful families and children and grandchildren, it's not enough. You've got to reach out and back and find kids like Mr. Cruz who can make it if you give them the structure, if you reach back and help, if you mentor, if you invest in boys and girls clubs, if you work with your school system, make sure it's the best school system, and not just your kid's school, but the school uptown in Harlem, not just downtown Montessori on the West Side.	这十分重要，在座各位 都是成功人士 我相信你们都拥有美好的家庭和子孙 这并不足够，你们必须伸出援手 帮助像Cruz先生这样的孩子 他们可以有所成就，如果你们给予他们结构 如果你们伸出援手，如果你们提供指导 如果你们资助男女童军 如果你们和学校系统携手合作 确保它成为最佳的学校系统 不仅是你们孩子的学校 还有那些位于哈林区的学校 不仅是位于西区市中心的蒙特梭利学校
All of us have to have a commitment to do that.	我们每个人都该致力于这方面的贡献
And we're not just investing in the kids.	我们投资的不仅是孩子
We're investing in our future.	我们投资的是我们的未来
We're going to be a minority-majority country in one more generation.	再过一个世代 我们将成为以少数族群为主的国家
Those that we call minorities now are going to be the majority.	现在我们称为 少数族群的人，将会变成多数人口
And we have to make sure that they are ready to be the majority.	我们必须确保他们 为成为多数人口做好准备
We have to make sure they're ready to be the leaders of this great country of ours, a country that is like no other, a country that amazes me every single day, a country that's fractious. We're always arguing with each other.	我们必须确保他们准备好 成为这个伟大国家的领袖 一个与众不同的国家 一个每天都带给我惊喜的国家 一个充满纷争的国家，我们总是争论不休
That's how the system's supposed to work.	这就是这个系统的运作方式
It's a country of such contrasts, but it's a nation of nations.	这是一个 充满对立的国家，但它是国中之国
We touch every nation. Every nation touches us.	我们和每个国家息息相关 每个国家也和我们息息相关
We are a nation of immigrants.	我们是移民国家
That's why we need sound immigration policy.	这就是为什么我们需要健全的移民政策
It's ridiculous not to have a sound immigration policy to welcome those who want to come here and be part of this great nation, or we can send back home with an education to help their people rise up out of poverty.	这是十分荒谬的事－ 没有健全的移民政策 欢迎那些想来这里 成为这个伟大国家一份子的人 或者我们可以给予他们教育机会 帮助他们的人民脱离贫困
One of the great stories I love to tell is about my love of going to my hometown of New York and walking up Park Avenue on a beautiful day and admiring everything and seeing all the people go by from all over the world.	其中一个让我津津乐道的精采故事是 我喜欢返回纽约故居 在晴朗的日子沿着公园大道散步 欣赏周遭一切，观察与我擦肩而过 来自世界各地的人
But what I always have to do is stop at one of the corners and get a hot dog from the immigrant pushcart peddler.	但我必定会做的事 就是在其中一个转角停下 在移民手推车摊贩买热狗
Gotta have a dirty water dog.	非得吃个脏兮兮的热狗不可
And no matter where I am or what I'm doing, I've got to do that.	无论我身处何方或正在做什么 都非得做这件事不可
I even did it when I was Secretary of State.	即使担任国务卿时也不例外
I'd come out of my suite at the Waldorf Astoria —  — be walking up the street, and I would hit around 55th Street looking for the immigrant pushcart peddler.	我会走出Waldorf Astoria酒店套房 沿着街道前进，然后在第55街转角 寻找移民手推车摊贩
In those days, I had five bodyguards around me and three New York City police cars would roll alongside to make sure nobody whacked me while I was going up Park Avenue.	当年我身边跟着五个保镳 三辆纽约市警车沿途护送 确保我沿着公园大道前进时不会遭到攻击
And I would order the hot dog from the guy, and he'd start to fix it, and then he'd look around at the bodyguards and the police cars -- "I've got a green card! I've got a green card!"	我会向小贩买个热狗 他会开始制作，然后环顾四周 看见那些保镳和警车 "我有绿卡！我有绿卡！"
"It's okay, it's okay."	"没事、没事"
But now I'm alone. I'm alone.	但现在我独自一人，独自一人
I've got no bodyguards, I've got no police cars. I've got nothing.	没有保镳，没有警车，什么也没有
But I gotta have my hot dog.	但还是得吃热狗
I did it just last week. It was on a Tuesday evening down by Columbus Circle.	我上星期才买过，那是某个星期二傍晚 就在哥伦布圆环附近
And the scene repeats itself so often.	这是司空见惯的场景
I'll go up and ask for my hot dog, and the guy will fix it, and as he's finishing, he'll say, "I know you. I see you on television.	我上前买热狗 那个小贩开始制作，即将完成时 他说，"我认得你，我在电视上见过你"
You're, well, you're General Powell."	"你是…嗯…你是鲍威尔将军"
"Yes, yes.""Oh ... " I hand him the money.	"是、是" "喔…" 我把钱递给他
"No, General. You can't pay me. I've been paid.	"不，将军 你不能付我钱，我已得到报偿"
America has paid me. I never forget where I came from.	"美国已经给了我报偿 我永远不会忘记自己来自何方"
But now I'm an American. Sir, thank you."	"但我现在是美国人，长官，谢谢"
I accept the generosity, continue up the street, and it washes over me, my God, it's the same country that greeted my parents this way 90 years ago.	我接受他的好意，继续沿着街道前进 脑海里浮现一个念头，天哪 这就是九十年前 以同样方式欢迎我父母的国家
So we are still that magnificent country, but we are fueled by young people coming up from every land in the world, and it is our obligation as contributing citizens to this wonderful country of ours to make sure that no child gets left behind.	因此，这依然是当年那个泱泱大国 但来自世界各地的年轻人 为这个国家贡献心力 我们的义务是 成为对这个美好国家有所贡献的公民 确保没有任何孩子会被遗忘
Thank you very much.	十分感谢
So I didn't always make my living from music.	（吸气，呼气） 我以前并不靠音乐谋生。
For about the five years after graduating from an upstanding liberal arts university, this was my day job.	自从我五年前 从一所正派的文理学院毕业起 这是我白天的工作。
I was a self-employed living statue called the 8-Foot Bride, and I love telling people l did this for a job, because everybody always wants to know, who are these freaks in real life?	我是一座个体经营的、名为"8英尺新娘"的活雕像， 我喜欢告诉别人这是我的工作。 因为大家都想知道， 这些怪人在真实生活中到底是什么样的？
Hello.	大家好。
I painted myself white one day, stood on a box, put a hat or a can at my feet, and when someone came by and dropped in money, I handed them a flower and some intense eye contact.	我每天把自己涂白，站在一个盒子上， 在脚边放一顶帽子或者一个罐子， 如果有路过的人向里面投钱 我递给他们一朵花，并且和他们进行强烈的眼神交流。
And if they didn't take the flower, I threw in a gesture of sadness and longing as they walked away.	如果他们没有收下花， 我就表现出悲伤和充满渴望的样子 看着他们慢慢走远。
So I had the most profound encounters with people, especially lonely people who looked like they hadn't talked to anyone in weeks, and we would get this beautiful moment of prolonged eye contact being allowed in a city street, and we would sort of fall in love a little bit.	我与人有着最深层次的接触， 尤其是那些看起来 好几个星期都没有与人交流的孤独者 我们共享一个美好的时刻 城市街道上可以发生的一次漫长眼神交流， 我们都感觉好像有点爱上对方。
And my eyes would say, "Thank you. I see you."	我的眼睛会说，"谢谢。我看到你了。"
And their eyes would say, "Nobody ever sees me. Thank you."	他们的眼睛则会说， "从来没有人在意我的存在。谢谢你。"
And I would get harassed sometimes.	有时候我会被骚扰。
People would yell at me from their passing cars.	开车路过的人从车里对我大喊。
"Get a job!"	"找份工作去！"
And I'd be, like, "This is my job."	我的反应是"这就是我的工作。"
But it hurt, because it made me fear that I was somehow doing something un-joblike and unfair, shameful.	但是这让我很伤心 因为这让我感觉我的工作不正经 不公平和可耻。
I had no idea how perfect a real education I was getting for the music business on this box.	我没想到站在这个盒子上以音乐谋生的经历 竟会是有如此深刻的教育意义。
And for the economists out there, you may be interested to know I actually made a pretty predictable income, which was shocking to me given I had no regular customers, but pretty much 60 bucks on a Tuesday, 90 bucks on a Friday.	经济学家们你们可能会对这一点感兴趣， 我的收入其实相当稳定， 因为我没有固定的顾客 这一点让我自己也非常吃惊 我一般周二挣60美元，周五挣90美元。
It was consistent.	我的收入是稳定的。
And meanwhile, I was touring locally and playing in nightclubs with my band, the Dresden Dolls.	同时，我还在本地巡演 与我的乐队the Dresden Dolls一同在夜店演出。
This was me on piano, a genius drummer.	这是我在弹钢琴，旁边是一位天才鼓手
I wrote the songs, and eventually we started making enough money that I could quit being a statue, and as we started touring, I really didn't want to lose this sense of direct connection with people, because I loved it.	我还搞歌曲创作， 我们的收入逐渐增加，最终，我不需要再做活人雕塑赚钱了， 我们开始巡演之后 我依然不想失去这种 与人直接交流的感觉，因为我喜欢这种感觉。
So after all of our shows, we would sign autographs and hug fans and hang out and talk to people, and we made an art out of asking people to help us and join us, and I would track down local musicians and artists and they would set up outside of our shows, and they would pass the hat, and then they would come in and join us onstage, so we had this rotating smorgasbord of weird, random circus guests.	所以我们在表演结束之后一定会签名 拥抱我们的歌迷，和人交流互动， 我们将请求他人给予帮助或加入我们的过程 变成了一门艺术，我会找来当地的音乐家和艺术家 在我们的演出门口表演， 他们会传递一个帽子， 随后他们进入演出场馆和我们一起登上舞台 也就是说，我们有着不断更替的、各种各样的、随机的、古怪的表演嘉宾。
And then Twitter came along, and made things even more magic, because I could ask instantly for anything anywhere.	后来，微博的出现 让事情变得更加神奇，因为 我可以在任意时间和地点提出任何要求。
So I would need a piano to practice on, and an hour later I would be at a fan's house. This is in London.	我可能会需要一架钢琴练习， 一个小时之后，我就在歌迷的家里弹琴。这件事发生在伦敦。
People would bring home-cooked food to us all over the world backstage and feed us and eat with us. This is in Seattle.	在世界各地都有人 把自己做的食物送到我们的后台并和我们一起吃。这是在西雅图。
Fans who worked in museums and stores and any kind of public space would wave their hands if I would decide to do a last-minute, spontaneous, free gig.	如果我临时决定搞一场即兴的演唱会， 在博物馆、商店或者任何其它公共场所工作的歌迷 就会向我们发出邀请。
This is a library in Auckland.	这是奥克兰的一家图书馆。
On Saturday I tweeted for this crate and hat, because I did not want to schlep them from the East Coast, and they showed up care of this dude, Chris from Newport Beach, who says hello.	周六我发微博希望有人为我提供木板箱和帽子， 因为我不想把它们从东海岸带到这里， 最终来自纽波特比奇的Chris 为我提供了这两样道具，他也向大家问好。
I once tweeted, where in Melbourne can I buy a neti pot?	我曾经发微博问墨尔本哪里有卖洗鼻壶？
And a nurse from a hospital drove one right at that moment to the cafe I was in, and I bought her a smoothie and we sat there talking about nursing and death.	一位在医院工作的护士开车 直接把它送到了我在的咖啡馆里， 我给她买了一杯沙冰 我们坐在一起聊护理和死亡。
And I love this kind of random closeness, which is lucky, because I do a lot of couchsurfing.	我喜欢这样幸运的、随机的亲近感觉 因为我常常做沙发客。
In mansions where everyone in my crew gets their own room but there's no wireless, and in punk squats, everyone on the floor in one room with no toilets but with wireless, clearly making it the better option.	在大房子里，我们的每一位团队成员都有自己的房间， 但是没有无线网，在朋克乐迷占据的废弃房屋里， 所有人都睡在一间房间的地板上，没有卫生间 但是有无线网，这一优势第二种方式成为了更好的选择。
My crew once pulled our van up to a really poor Miami neighborhood and we found out that our couchsurfing host for the night was an 18-year-old girl, still living at home, and her family were all undocumented immigrants from Honduras.	我的团队曾经把车 停在一个非常贫穷的迈阿密社区 我们发现当晚招待我们的是一个 依然与父母同住的18岁女孩， 他们一家人都是来自洪都拉斯的非法移民。
And that night, her whole family took the couches and she slept together with her mom so that we could take their beds.	那天晚上，他们一家人 都睡沙发，她和她妈妈挤在一起 让我们睡他们的床。
And I lay there thinking, these people have so little.	我就躺在那里想， 这些人拥有的东西这么少。
Is this fair?	这样公平吗？
And in the morning, her mom taught us how to try to make tortillas and wanted to give me a Bible, and she took me aside and she said to me in her broken English, "Your music has helped my daughter so much.	早晨，她妈妈教我们做 玉米薄饼，还想给我一本《圣经》， 她把我叫到一边，用支离破碎的英语对我说， "你的音乐对我女儿的帮助很大。
Thank you for staying here. We're all so grateful."	谢谢你能住在这里。我们都很感激。"
And I thought, this is fair.	然后我想，这就公平了。
This is this.	是这种过程。
A couple months later, I was in Manhattan, and I tweeted for a crash pad, and at midnight, I'm ringing a doorbell on the Lower East Side, and it occurs to me I've never actually done this alone.	几个月之后，我在曼哈顿 发微博希望找一个过夜的地方，午夜时分 我在下东区按一户人家的门铃， 然后我突然意识到我从来没有一个人借宿过。
I've always been with my band or my crew.	我以前一直和我的乐队或者团队在一起。
Is this what stupid people do?	这是不是愚蠢的人做的事情？
Is this how stupid people die?	愚蠢的人是不是就是这样死的？
And before I can change my mind, the door busts open.	我还没来得及改变主意，门就打开了。
She's an artist. He's a financial blogger for Reuters, and they're pouring me a glass of red wine and offering me a bath, and I have had thousands of nights like that and like that.	她是一位艺术家。他是路透社的一位金融博客写手， 他们给我倒了一杯红酒 让我洗澡 我经历过成千上万个这样的夜晚。
So I couchsurf a lot. I also crowdsurf a lot.	所以我常常做沙发客，也经常人群冲浪（从舞台上跳下，被观众接住）。
I maintain couchsurfing and crowdsurfing are basically the same thing.	我认为做沙发客和人群冲浪 其实是一个概念。
You're falling into the audience and you're trusting each other.	落入人群中 和信任他人。
I once asked an opening band of mine if they wanted to go out into the crowd and pass the hat to get themselves some extra money, something that I did a lot.	我曾经问一支为我们开场的乐队 他们愿不愿意到人群中去，传递帽子 筹一点额外的钱，我经常这样做。
And as usual, the band was psyched, but there was this one guy in the band who told me he just couldn't bring himself to go out there.	和往常一样，乐队非常兴奋， 但是其中有一位成员告诉我 他没有办法说服自己这样做。
It felt too much like begging to stand there with the hat.	拿着帽子站在那里感觉实在是太像乞讨了。
And I recognized his fear of "Is this fair?" and "Get a job."	我意识到这种恐惧就是我想到"这公平吗？"和听到"找份工作去！"的时候的感受。
And meanwhile, my band is becoming bigger and bigger.	同时，我的乐队发展得越来越好。
We signed with a major label.	我们和一家主流厂牌签约。
And our music is a cross between punk and cabaret.	我们的音乐是朋克和卡巴莱的集合体。
It's not for everybody.	不是所有人都能接受。
Well, maybe it's for you.	也许你会喜欢的。
We sign, and there's all this hype leading up to our next record.	签约之后，公司举办了大量的宣传活动为我们的新唱片造势。
And it comes out and it sells about 25,000 copies in the first few weeks, and the label considers this a failure.	唱片推出之后仅仅几周就卖出两万五千张， 但是我们的厂牌认为这是一张失败的专辑。
And I was like, "25,000, isn't that a lot?"	我当时就说，"两万五千张，不是很多吗？"
They were like, "No, the sales are going down. It's a failure."	他们说，"不，销量在下降。这是一张失败的唱片。"
And they walk off.	随后他们就抛弃了我们。
Right at this same time, I'm signing and hugging after a gig, and a guy comes up to me and hands me a $10 bill, and he says, "I'm sorry, I burned your CD from a friend."	与此同时，一次演唱会结束之后，我为歌迷签名与他们拥抱的时候 一个人走上前来 给了我一张10美元的纸币， 他说： "不好意思，我从朋友那里翻录了你的CD。"
"But I read your blog, I know you hate your label.	"不过我读了你的博客，我知道你不喜欢你的厂牌。
I just want you to have this money."	我希望你收下这笔钱。"
And this starts happening all the time.	这样的事情现在常常发生。
I become the hat after my own gigs, but I have to physically stand there and take the help from people, and unlike the guy in the opening band, I've actually had a lot of practice standing there.	我们的演唱会结束之后，我变成了那个收集钱币的帽子， 我就站在那里，接受人们的帮助， 和之前开场乐队的那个成员不同 我在这方面拥有丰富的经验。
Thank you.	谢谢。
And this is the moment I decide I'm just going to give away my music for free online whenever possible, so it's like Metallica over here, Napster, bad; Amanda Palmer over here, and I'm going to encourage torrenting, downloading, sharing, but I'm going to ask for help, because I saw it work on the street.	那一刻我决定 我要抓住可能的机会 在网上免费共享我的音乐。 当时Metallica正在声讨Napster 而我Amanda Palmer却在唱反调，鼓励 BT、下载、分享，但是我会请求人们的帮助 因为这种方式在街头是行得通的。
So I fought my way off my label and for my next project with my new band, the Grand Theft Orchestra, I turned to crowdfunding, and I fell into those thousands of connections that I'd made, and I asked my crowd to catch me.	所以我和厂牌斗争，结束了合作， 并与我的乐队the Grand Theft Orchestra， 我开始在人群中融资。 我纵身一跃，跳入我建立的成千上万的联系之中 我请求人群接住我。
And the goal was 100,000 dollars.	我的目标是十万美元
My fans backed me at nearly 1.2 million, which was the biggest music crowdfunding project to date.	我的歌迷们为我提供了一百二十万， 这是历史上规模最大的音乐人群募资。
And you can see how many people it is.	可以看出有多少人参与了募款。
It's about 25,000 people.	大约两万五千人。
And the media asked, "Amanda, the music business is tanking and you encourage piracy.	媒体会问，"Amanda， 音乐产业在衰亡，而你鼓励盗版。
How did you make all these people pay for music?"	你是如何让这么多人为音乐付钱的？"
And the real answer is, I didn't make them. I asked them.	我真正的答案是，我并没有逼迫他们，我所作的是请求他们。
And through the very act of asking people, I'd connected with them, and when you connect with them, people want to help you.	通过请求他人帮助 我与他们建立了联系 情感相通之后，人们就愿意帮助你。
It's kind of counterintuitive for a lot of artists.	对于很多艺术家来说，这似乎不合逻辑。
They don't want to ask for things.	他们不愿意请求帮助。
But it's not easy. It's not easy to ask.	不过这并不容易。开口提出请求是一件不容易的事情。
And a lot of artists have a problem with this.	很多艺术家都不愿这样做。
Asking makes you vulnerable.	请求帮助可能会让你很脆弱。
And I got a lot of criticism online after my Kickstarter went big for continuing my crazy crowdsourcing practices, specifically for asking musicians who are fans if they wanted to join us on stage for a few songs in exchange for love and tickets and beer, and this was a doctored image that went up of me on a website.	Kickstarter上的项目发展壮大之后 我继续在人群中募资的行为 在网络上招来了很多批评。 尤其是邀请喜欢我们音乐的音乐人 上台与我们一同演唱几首歌曲 换取门票、啤酒，加深感情 这是某网站刊登的一张 处理过的我的照片。
And this hurt in a really familiar way.	这种受伤的感觉很熟悉。
And people saying, "You're not allowed anymore to ask for that kind of help," really reminded me of the people in their cars yelling, "Get a job."	人们说，"你现在已经没有资格 再这样请求帮助了，" 这让我想起那些在车里对我大喊"找份工作去。"的人们
Because they weren't with us on the sidewalk, and they couldn't see the exchange that was happening between me and my crowd, an exchange that was very fair to us but alien to them.	他们没有和我们一起站在人行道上 他们没有见过 我和人们的交流， 一种我们认为公平，他们却从未体验过的交流。
So this is slightly not safe for work.	这是一项不宜在工作场所进行的工作。
This is my Kickstarter backer party in Berlin.	这是在柏林举办的Kickstarter赞助者派对。
At the end of the night, I stripped and let everyone draw on me.	派对结束之前，我脱光了衣服让人们在我身上画画。
Now let me tell you, if you want to experience the visceral feeling of trusting strangers, I recommend this, especially if those strangers are drunk German people.	我用亲身经历告诉你们，如果你想体会 信任陌生人那种发自内心深处的感觉 我推荐这种方式， 尤其是这些陌生人都是醉酒的德国人的时候。
This was a ninja master-level fan connection, because what I was really saying here was, I trust you this much.	这是与歌迷交流的最高级别， 因为我真正传达的信息是， 我就是这样信任你们。
Should I? Show me.	我应该这样做吗？用行动告诉我。
For most of human history, musicians, artists, they've been part of the community, connectors and openers, not untouchable stars.	在人类历史上的大部分时期， 音乐人、艺术家是社群的一部分 他们促进沟通，开拓新领域，不是无法触及的明星。
Celebrity is about a lot of people loving you from a distance, but the Internet and the content that we're freely able to share on it are taking us back.	成为名人意味着有很多人从远方爱你， 然而因特网 和我们在网络上自由共享的内容 拉近了名人和支持者的距离。
It's about a few people loving you up close and about those people being enough.	现在则是一小部分人近距离的 为你提供足够的支持。
So a lot of people are confused by the idea of no hard sticker price.	很多人不理解没有标准定价 这个概念。
They see it as an unpredictable risk, but the things I've done, the Kickstarter, the street, the doorbell, I don't see these things as risk.	他们认为这些事情不可预料的冒险，但是我所做的事情 Kickstarter，在街头募款，按陌生人的门铃 我不认为这些事情是风险。
I see them as trust.	我认为它们是信任。
Now, the online tools to make the exchange as easy and as instinctive as the street, they're getting there.	现在，网络工具让这种交流 像在街头请求帮助一样简单和自然， 它们即将实现这种转变。
But the perfect tools aren't going to help us if we can't face each other and give and receive fearlessly, but, more important, to ask without shame.	然而如果我们无法直面彼此 无所畏惧的给予和接受 完美的工具也无法帮助我们， 然而，更重要的是 不因请求帮助而感到羞愧。
My music career has been spent trying to encounter people on the Internet the way I could on the box, so blogging and tweeting not just about my tour dates and my new video but about our work and our art and our fears and our hangovers, our mistakes, and we see each other.	做音乐的过程中，我一直希望 能像我站在盒子上的时候一样 与不同的人相遇 所以我的博客和微博上不仅有我们的巡演日期 我们的新音乐录音带，还有我们的作品、我们的艺术 我们的恐惧、宿醉和错误 这样我们就能真正感受到彼此的存在。
And I think when we really see each other, we want to help each other.	当我们真正建立这种联系时， 我们就希望互相帮助。
I think people have been obsessed with the wrong question, which is, "How do we make people pay for music?"	我认为人们花了大量的精力试图解决错误的问题， 也就是"我们如何强迫人们付钱购买音乐？"
What if we started asking, "How do we let people pay for music?"	我们应该问一个新的问题， "我们如何让人们主动为音乐慷慨解囊？"
Thank you.	谢谢。
The two most likely largest inventions of our generation are the Internet and the mobile phone.	互联网和手机可以说是 我们这个时代 最为重要的两大发明了
They've changed the world.	它们改变了整个世界
However, largely to our surprise, they also turned out to be the perfect tools for the surveillance state.	然而，令我们非常吃惊的是 它们同时也成为了 用于国家监视的完美工具
It turned out that the capability to collect data, information and connections about basically any of us and all of us is exactly what we've been hearing throughout of the summer through revelations and leaks about Western intelligence agencies, mostly U.S. intelligence agencies, watching over the rest of the world.	事实上，收集关于我们 每个人或者说所有人的 数据、信息以及关系的这种能力 正是这个夏天从 西方情报机构 特别是美国情报机构 所透露或者泄露的 这些情报机构监视着世界其它地方
We've heard about these starting with the revelations from June 6.	六月六日开始 陆续听到一些泄露的消息
Edward Snowden started leaking information, top secret classified information, from the U.S. intelligence agencies, and we started learning about things like PRISM and XKeyscore and others.	斯诺登开始透露 那些来源于美国情报机构的 顶级机密信息 于是我们也开始了解到一些 诸如菱镜计划和XKeyscore的事情
And these are examples of the kinds of programs U.S. intelligence agencies are running right now, against the whole rest of the world.	这些都是美国情报机构 正在运作的项目 以此对抗世界其它国家
And if you look back about the forecasts on surveillance by George Orwell, well it turns out that George Orwell was an optimist.	如果你回顾一下乔治·奥威尔 有关监视的预言 你会发现 奥威尔的确是一个乐观主义者
We are right now seeing a much larger scale of tracking of individual citizens than he could have ever imagined.	如今我们看到的是大规模的 对普通民众的跟踪 这远远超出了他最初的想象
And this here is the infamous NSA data center in Utah.	这就是那个臭名昭著的 美国犹他州的NSA数据中心
Due to be opened very soon, it will be both a supercomputing center and a data storage center.	在不久的将来开放后 它将成为一个超级计算中心 同时也将成为一个超大数据中心
You could basically imagine it has a large hall filled with hard drives storing data they are collecting.	你几乎可以想象那个被硬盘设备塞满的大厅 无时不刻都在存储 他们收集来的数据
And it's a pretty big building.	这是一幢巨大的建筑
How big? Well, I can give you the numbers -- 140,000 square meters -- but that doesn't really tell you very much.	具体有多大呢？我们来看一个数据 14万平方米 可能你对这个数据也没有太多概念
Maybe it's better to imagine it as a comparison.	我们最好通过比较来想象
You think about the largest IKEA store you've ever been in.	想想你去过的 最大的宜家家具吧
This is five times larger.	它将是宜家的五倍大
How many hard drives can you fit in an IKEA store?	想想你能在宜家塞进多少硬盘设备吧
Right? It's pretty big.	是吧？数目的确非常巨大！
We estimate that just the electricity bill for running this data center is going to be in the tens of millions of dollars a year.	我们估算仅用于运行 这个数据中心的电费 每年就需要数千万美元
And this kind of wholesale surveillance means that they can collect our data and keep it basically forever, keep it for extended periods of time, keep it for years, keep it for decades.	而这种大规模的监视 意味着他们可以收集我们的数据 并且基本上可以永久保留 保留很长时间 几年甚至几十年
And this opens up completely new kinds of risks to us all.	这个将给我们所有人 带来前所未有的风险
And what this is is that it is wholesale blanket surveillance on everyone.	它将是一种大规模的对我们每个人的 无障碍监视
Well, not exactly everyone, because the U.S. intelligence only has a legal right to monitor foreigners.	当然，确切来说也不是对所有人 因为美国情报机构只有对外国人的 合法监视权力
They can monitor foreigners when foreigners' data connections end up in the United States or pass through the United States.	一旦那些非美国的数据流 到达或者经过美国 就要被监视了
And monitoring foreigners doesn't sound too bad until you realize that I'm a foreigner and you're a foreigner.	监视外国人听起来似乎没那么糟糕 除非你意识到 其实我们都是老外
In fact, 96 percent of the planet are foreigners.	事实上，这个星球上96%都是老外
Right?	是吧？
So it is wholesale blanket surveillance of all of us, all of us who use telecommunications and the Internet.	所以说只要你使用通信工具和互联网 你就会被彻底监视
But don't get me wrong: There are actually types of surveillance that are okay.	大家也别误会 的确也有一些还不错的监视形式
I love freedom, but even I agree that some surveillance is fine.	我热爱自由，但我自始至终也同意 有一些监视是有益的
If the law enforcement is trying to find a murderer, or they're trying to catch a drug lord or trying to prevent a school shooting, and they have leads and they have suspects, then it's perfectly fine for them to tap the suspect's phone, and to intercept his Internet communications.	比如如果执法机关正在寻找一名谋杀犯 或者搜捕一个贩毒者 或者试图阻止一场校园枪击案的发生 并且他们中有头目有嫌疑犯 此时如果能监听他们的手机 截获他们的网络通信那就太棒了
I'm not arguing that at all, but that's not what programs like PRISM are about.	我并不反对这一点 但菱镜计划之类的项目并不是这么做的
They are not about doing surveillance on people that they have reason to suspect of some wrongdoings.	他们不是在监视那些 他们有理由怀疑的坏人
They're about doing surveillance on people they know are innocent.	他们在监视那些 无辜的人
So the four main arguments supporting surveillance like this, well, the first of all is that whenever you start discussing about these revelations, there will be naysayers trying to minimize the importance of these revelations, saying that we knew all this already, we knew it was happening, there's nothing new here.	对于这样的监听 有四条主要的理由 首先是只要你 一开始讨论信息泄露的问题 总会有反对者站出来 把泄露的重要性降到最小 他们说我们早已知道这些 我们知道在发生什么，没有什么新鲜的
And that's not true. Don't let anybody tell you that we knew this already, because we did not know this already.	事实不是这样的 谁说我们早知道这些？我们不知道
Our worst fears might have been something like this, but we didn't know this was happening.	我们最大的恐惧就是这些事情已经发生 而我们一无所知
Now we know for a fact it's happening.	现在我们的确可以确定的知道在发生什么
We didn't know about this. We didn't know about PRISM.	而我们之前并不了解 我们不了解PRISM
We didn't know about XKeyscore. We didn't know about Cybertrans.	也不了解XKeyscore，Cybertrans
We didn't know about DoubleArrow.	还有DoubleArrow
We did not know about Skywriter -- all these different programs run by U.S. intelligence agencies.	以及Skywriter 这些各式各样 由美国情报局运行的项目
But now we do.	但现在我们都了解了
And we did not know that U.S. intelligence agencies go to extremes such as infiltrating standardization bodies to sabotage encryption algorithms on purpose.	我们之前也并不知道 美国情报机构如何极端到 通过渗透至标准组织内部 以达到削弱加密算法强度的目的
And what that means is that you take something which is secure, an encryption algorithm which is so secure that if you use that algorithm to encrypt one file, nobody can decrypt that file.	这就意味着 如果你拿到一份加密文件 它的加密算法可以安全到 使你加密之后 没有任何人可以解开它
Even if they take every single computer on the planet just to decrypt that one file, it's going to take millions of years.	即便你用地球上的每一个计算机去解密它 也需要数百万年
So that's basically perfectly safe, uncrackable.	它可以说是绝密的，无懈可击
You take something which is that good and then you weaken it on purpose, making all of us less secure as an end result.	拿到这样一件完美的东西 然后故意弱化它 使得我们每个人终都变得不安全
A real-world equivalent would be that intelligence agencies would force some secret pin code into every single house alarm so they could get into every single house because, you know, bad people might have house alarms, but it will also make all of us less secure as an end result.	现实生活中一个类似的例子是 情报机构会强行 将某种加密识别码植入每个家居防盗系统 这样他们就可以进入任何一所房子 因为坏人可能装有防盗系统 但这样一来 最后我们自己也变得不那么安全
Backdooring encryption algorithms just boggles the mind.	利用加密算法这个后门儿 的确让人匪夷所思
But of course, these intelligence agencies are doing their job.	当然啦，这些情报机构只是在履行自己的职责
This is what they have been told to do: do signals intelligence, monitor telecommunications, monitor Internet traffic.	这正是他们被要求做的事情 做信号情报 监视通讯渠道 以及监测网络流量
That's what they're trying to do, and since most, a very big part of the Internet traffic today is encrypted, they're trying to find ways around the encryption.	这正是他们尝试在做的 由于目前相当大一部分的互联网流量是加密的 他们也就在尝试通过加密寻找突破口
One way is to sabotage encryption algorithms, which is a great example about how U.S. intelligence agencies are running loose.	削弱加密算法就是其中一种手段 这是美国情报机构如何 为所欲为 的一个极好的例子
They are completely out of control, and they should be brought back under control.	他们完全不受控制 而这些应该加以控制
So what do we actually know about the leaks?	而我们对这些信息泄露的真实了解能有多少呢
Everything is based on the files leaked by Mr. Snowden.	所有这些都基于 Snowden先生的那些泄露文件
The very first PRISM slides from the beginning of June detail a collection program where the data is collected from service providers, and they actually go and name the service providers they have access to.	从六月初 第一个PRISM的幻灯片开始 它详细描述了 一个从服务提供商收集数据的项目 而且他们还对那些被使用的 服务商进行了命名
They even have a specific date on when the collection of data began for each of the service providers.	甚至为他们设立一个纪念日 记载开始从各个服务提供商 获取数据的日子
So for example, they name the collection from Microsoft started on September 11, 2007, for Yahoo on the March 12, 2008, and then others: Google, Facebook, Skype, Apple and so on.	比如，他们为2007年9月11号 开始从Microsoft获取的那批数据起了名字 还有2008年3月12号的Yahoo 之后还有Google, Facebook Skype, Apple等等
And every single one of these companies denies.	任何一个公司对此都呈否认态度
They all say that this simply isn't true, that they are not giving backdoor access to their data.	都说这简直就是谎言 他们从来没有开过后门让别人获取他们的数据
Yet we have these files.	但是我们的确得到了这些文件
So is one of the parties lying, or is there some other alternative explanation?	那么是其中一方在撒谎吗？ 有没有其他可能的解释？
And one explanation would be that these parties, these service providers, are not cooperating.	一种可能的解释是 这些当事人，也就是这些服务提供商 他们并没有合作
Instead, they've been hacked.	只是被黑了
That would explain it. They aren't cooperating. They've been hacked.	这种解释是合理的：他们没有参与而是受到了黑客攻击
In this case, they've been hacked by their own government.	其实可以说是他们被自己的政府黑了
That might sound outlandish, but we already have cases where this has happened, for example, the case of the Flame malware which we strongly believe was authored by the U.S. government, and which, to spread, subverted the security of the Windows Update network, meaning here, the company was hacked by their own government.	也许这听起来有点荒唐 但我们的确有过这样的案例 比如那个有关恶意软件Flame的案子 我们之前多么坚信它是由 美国政府授权的 而就是它破坏了Windows的 网络升级系统的安全 这就意味着 他们被自己的政府黑了
And there's more evidence supporting this theory as well.	当然还有更多 支撑这个说法的证据
Der Spiegel, from Germany, leaked more information about the operations run by the elite hacker units operating inside these intelligence agencies.	德国的明镜周刊暴露了更多 有关这些情报机构中的顶级黑客团队 所做作为的信息
Inside NSA, the unit is called TAO, Tailored Access Operations, and inside GCHQ, which is the U.K. equivalent, it's called NAC, Network Analysis Centre.	在NSA内部, 这个部门被叫做TAO 特定情报获取行动 这个等同于英国GCHQ内部的NAC 网络分析中心
And these recent leaks of these three slides detail an operation run by this GCHQ intelligence agency from the United Kingdom targeting a telecom here in Belgium.	最近泄露的这三个幻灯片 详细描述了一个由GCHQ情报局 在英国发起的行动 目标定位在 一个比利时的电信公司
And what this really means is that an E.U. country's intelligence agency is breaching the security of a telecom of a fellow E.U. country on purpose, and they discuss it in their slides completely casually, business as usual.	这件事表明了一个事实 一个欧盟国家的情报机构 正在蓄意破坏 联盟国家电信公司的安全 而他们在幻灯片里谈论这件事时 一如既往的自然
Here's the primary target, here's the secondary target, here's the teaming.	这是主要目标 这是次要目标 这是他们的团队
They probably have a team building on Thursday evening in a pub.	他们通常会在周四晚上在酒吧里做团队建设的活动
They even use cheesy PowerPoint clip art like, you know, "Success," when they gain access to services like this.	他们每成功一次 就会用一些俗气的幻灯片 庆祝所谓的胜利
What the hell?	他们究竟在搞什么鬼
And then there's the argument that okay, yes, this might be going on, but then again, other countries are doing it as well.	有人会争辩说 是的，他们是在监视 但话说回来，哪个国家没有这样的行动呢？
All countries spy.	也许真的是
And maybe that's true.	所有国家都有间谍
Many countries spy, not all of them, but let's take an example.	很多国家都有，但并不是所有都是这样
Let's take, for example, Sweden.	比如说，瑞典
I'm speaking of Sweden because Sweden has a little bit of a similar law to the United States.	我提起瑞典这个国家是因为 在法律方面它与美国是有些相似的
When your data traffic goes through Sweden, their intelligence agency has a legal right by the law to intercept that traffic.	当你的数据流经过瑞典的时候 他们的情报机构的确是有 截获这些数据的合法权力
All right, how many Swedish decisionmakers and politicians and business leaders use, every day, U.S.-based services, like, you know, run Windows or OSX, or use Facebook or LinkedIn, or store their data in clouds like iCloud or Skydrive or DropBox, or maybe use online services like Amazon web services or sales support?	那么，有多少瑞典的决策者 政治家和商业领袖 每天使用美国的服务呢？ 比如像使用Windows或OSX 使用Facebook或LinkedIn 或者将数据上传到类似iCloud中进行云存储 还有Skydrive或者DropBox 也许还有一些在线服务，类似Amazon网络服务或者销售支持？
And the answer is, every single Swedish business leader does that every single day.	答案是，每一个瑞典的商业人士每天都会使用它们
And then we turn it around.	那么如果我们反过来问
How many American leaders use Swedish webmails and cloud services?	有多少美国杰出人士 使用瑞典的网络邮箱和云服务呢？
And the answer is zero.	答案是零
So this is not balanced.	所以这显然是不平衡的
It's not balanced by any means, not even close.	相差甚远
And when we do have the occasional European success story, even those, then, typically end up being sold to the United States.	即使有一天我们偶然发现一个 欧洲人获胜的故事 典型的结局一定是这个服务被美国公司收购
Like, Skype used to be secure.	比如，Skype最初采用端到端的加密
It used to be end-to-end encrypted.	所以还是安全的
Then it was sold to the United States.	后来被卖给了美国后
Today, it no longer is secure.	就不再安全了
So once again, we take something which is secure and then we make it less secure on purpose, making all of us less secure as an outcome.	所以，我们再一次把一个原本安全的东西 弄得不再安全 使得我们所有人最终也都不再安全了
And then the argument that the United States is only fighting terrorists.	也有争论说 美国只是在
It's the war on terror.	展开一场针对恐怖分子的战争
You shouldn't worry about it.	本来无需担忧
Well, it's not the war on terror.	但事实上它不是
Yes, part of it is war on terror, and yes, there are terrorists, and they do kill and maim, and we should fight them, but we know through these leaks that they have used the same techniques to listen to phone calls of European leaders, to tap the email of residents of Mexico and Brazil, to read email traffic inside the United Nations Headquarters and E.U. Parliament, and I don't think they are trying to find terrorists from inside the E.U. Parliament, right?	是的，我们承认这中间有恐怖分子 我们必须与这些 肆意残害的行为作战 但从那些泄露的消息中我们也知道 他们在使用相同的手段 监听那些欧洲的领导者 截获墨西哥和巴西居民的邮件 甚至联合国总部以及欧盟议会的邮件 他们显然不会在欧盟议会内部 寻找恐怖分子，对吧？
It's not the war on terror.	所以，这不是一场针对恐怖分子的战争
Part of it might be, and there are terrorists, but are we really thinking about terrorists as such an existential threat that we are willing to do anything at all to fight them?	虽然部分意义上可以说是 恐怖主义的确是存在的 但我们会认为它是一种 必需我们不惜一切代价去全力对抗的现存威胁么？
Are the Americans ready to throw away the Constituion and throw it in the trash just because there are terrorists?	美国人民准备为了恐怖分子 而抛弃宪法？
And the same thing with the Bill of Rights and all the amendments and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the E.U. conventions on human rights and fundamental freedoms and the press freedom?	抛弃那些人权法案？ 还有世界人权宣言 欧盟那些关于人权和基本自由的法案 还有出版自由？
Do we really think terrorism is such an existential threat, we are ready to do anything at all?	我们真的认为恐怖主义 需要我们不惜这一切代价吗？
But people are scared about terrorists, and then they think that maybe that surveillance is okay because they have nothing to hide.	是的，人们惧怕恐怖主义 所以也许他们认为这样的监视是合理的 反正也没什么需要隐藏的
Feel free to survey me if that helps.	需要的话那就随便监视好了
And whoever tells you that they have nothing to hide simply hasn't thought about this long enough.	但是，谁说他们没有什么值得隐藏起来的？ 只是他们还没有考虑那么长远罢了
Because we have this thing called privacy, and if you really think that you have nothing to hide, please make sure that's the first thing you tell me, because then I know that I should not trust you with any secrets, because obviously you can't keep a secret.	因为我们每个人都有隐私 如果你真的认为你没有什么要隐藏的 那你一定要弄清楚这是你告诉我的第一件事 因为这之后我会觉得 不能再信任你 因为你明显不会保守秘密
But people are brutally honest with the Internet, and when these leaks started, many people were asking me about this.	人们对互联网都表现出盲目的诚实 当那些信息开始泄露的时候 许多人问我
And I have nothing to hide.	说他们没有什么需要隐瞒的
I'm not doing anything bad or anything illegal.	也没有做什么坏事或者违法的事情
Yet, I have nothing that I would in particular like to share with an intelligence agency, especially a foreign intelligence agency.	而且我也没有什么想要与 情报中心分享的特殊信息 何况还是国外的情报机构
And if we indeed need a Big Brother, I would much rather have a domestic Big Brother than a foreign Big Brother.	就算我们真的需要一个老大 我也希望他是本国的 而不是来自国外
And when the leaks started, the very first thing I tweeted about this was a comment about how, when you've been using search engines, you've been potentially leaking all that to U.S. intelligence.	当信息泄露开始的时候，我最先发表的 一条评论就是关于 当人们使用搜索引擎时， 是如何将信息泄露给了美国情报机构
And two minutes later, I got a reply by somebody called Kimberly from the United States challenging me, like, why am I worried about this?	两分钟后我收到一条回复 来自一个叫做Kimberly的美国人 他反对我说
What am I sending to worry about this? Am I sending naked pictures or something?	我又没有发送裸照之类的东西，为什么我还需要担心这个？
And my answer to Kimberly was that what I'm sending is none of your business, and it should be none of your government's business either.	我回答他说 我发送什么与你无关 当然也与你的政府无关
Because that's what it's about. It's about privacy.	因为这就是隐私
Privacy is nonnegotiable.	这一点没什么好讨论的
It should be built in to all the systems we use.	就是应该在我们所用的所有系统得到保障
And one thing we should all understand is that we are brutally honest with search engines.	有一点我们需要知道的是 我们对搜索引擎也是在盲目信任
You show me your search history, and I'll find something incriminating or something embarrassing there in five minutes.	只要你透露了你的搜索记录 我就能在五分钟之内 找到那些与之关联的让人尴尬的东西
We are more honest with search engines than we are with our families.	我们对搜索引擎的诚实 常常多于对我们的家庭
Search engines know more about you than your family members know about you.	搜索引擎通常也比你的家人 更了解你
And this is all the kind of information we are giving away, we are giving away to the United States.	这就是那些我们 泄露给美国的信息
And surveillance changes history.	监视改变历史
We know this through examples of corrupt presidents like Nixon.	堕落总统Nixon之类的例子告诉我们这些
Imagine if he would have had the kind of surveillance tools that are available today.	想象下如果他当时有现在这样的情报收集工具会怎么样吧
And let me actually quote the president of Brazil, Ms. Dilma Rousseff.	我想用巴西总统Dilma Rousseff夫人 做个例子
She was one of the targets of NSA surveillance.	她就是NSA监视的对象之一
Her email was read, and she spoke at the United Nations Headquarters, and she said, "If there is no right to privacy, there can be no true freedom of expression and opinion, and therefore, there can be no effective democracy."	她的邮件被截获了 她曾经在联合国总部质问 "如果没有隐私的权利 就不会有什么真正的言论自由和舆论自由 因此也不可能有有效的民主"
That's what it's about.	就是这样
Privacy is the building block of our democracies.	隐私是民主的基础
And to quote a fellow security researcher, Marcus Ranum, he said that the United States is right now treating the Internet as it would be treating one of its colonies.	一名在安全方面的同行学者Marcus Ranum曾说 如今美国对互联网的态度 就像对待他们的殖民地
So we are back to the age of colonization, and we, the foreign users of the Internet, we should think about Americans as our masters.	所以我们已经又回到了殖民时代 我们这些互联网的外国用户 应该把美国当做自己的主人
So Mr. Snowden, he's been blamed for many things.	Snowden先生曾经受到过种种指责
Some are blaming him for causing problems for the U.S. cloud industry and software companies with these revelations -- and blaming Snowden for causing problems for the U.S. cloud industry would be the equivalent of blaming Al Gore for causing global warming.	有些人谴责他带来了美国云产业 和软件公司的信息泄露问题 而这些谴责就如同 在责备Al Gore 带来全球变暖问题一样
So, what is there to be done?	那么，我们该怎么办？
Should we worry. No, we shouldn't worry.	我们需要担忧吗？不
We should be angry, because this is wrong, and it's rude, and it should not be done.	我们应该为这些丑恶的、无礼的、不该发生的事情 而愤怒
But that's not going to really change the situation.	但这些对改变现实无济于事
What's going to change the situation for the rest of the world is to try to steer away from systems built in the United States.	对于世界其它国家来说解决这一问题的方法 就是尝试避开 美国建立的这些系统
And that's much easier said than done.	但这说起来容易做起来难
How do you do that?	该怎么做呢
A single country, any single country in Europe cannot replace and build replacements for the U.S.-made operating systems and cloud services.	任何一个欧洲国家 都没有能力替代 美国制造的操作系统和云服务
But maybe you don't have to do it alone.	但也许我们可以不用孤军奋战
Maybe you can do it together with other countries.	而是与其它国家联合
The solution is open source.	这个解决方案是开源的
By building together open, free, secure systems, we can go around such surveillance, and then one country doesn't have to solve the problem by itself.	通过一同构建这样一个开放、免费并安全的系统 我们可以绕开监视 并且每个国家都不再只靠自己的力量
It only has to solve one little problem.	而只需要解决一个小问题
And to quote a fellow security researcher, Haroon Meer, one country only has to make a small wave, but those small waves together become a tide, and the tide will lift all the boats up at the same time, and the tide we will build with secure, free, open-source systems, will become the tide that will lift all of us up and above the surveillance state.	我们的安全专家Haroon Meer说过 每个国家都只能成为一个小水波 而聚在一起就可以掀起巨浪 从而可以同时载起所有的小船 这个安全，免费并开源的系统 将成为推动我们所有人的彭波巨浪 使我们可以从此 彻底逃脱国家的监视
Thank you very much.	谢谢大家
The substance of things unseen.	事物的本质是不可见的，
Cities, past and future.	城市的往昔和未来也是如此。
In Oxford, perhaps we can use Lewis Carroll and look in the looking glass that is New York City to try and see our true selves, or perhaps pass through to another world.	在牛津，我们或许从刘易斯·卡洛尔的著作， 从纽约市这面镜子里， 试图寻见真我； 或者进入另一个世界。
Or, in the words of F. Scott Fitzgerald, "As the moon rose higher, the inessential houses began to melt away until gradually I became aware of the old island here that once flowered for Dutch sailors' eyes, a fresh green breast of the new world."	或者，正如F·斯科特菲茨杰拉德所写： "每当明月升高， 微不足道的房屋开始消逝， 直到我逐渐意识到这座古老岛屿， 曾是荷兰水手眼中繁花盛开之地， 新世界中一处翠绿的处女地。"
My colleagues and I have been working for 10 years to rediscover this lost world in a project we call The Mannahatta Project.	我和我的同事用了十年时间 重新探索这个失落的世界， 并将其命名为"曼娜哈特"计划。
We're trying to discover what Henry Hudson would have seen on the afternoon of September 12th, 1609, when he sailed into New York harbor.	我们试图探索亨利‧哈德逊船长 在1609年9月12日的下午 航行至纽约港时所见的一切。
And I'd like to tell you the story in three acts, and if I have time still, an epilogue.	而我想把这个故事分成三段讲， 如果时间允许的话，我也想再做一个总结。
So, Act I: A Map Found.	那么，第一部分：一张地图的发现。
So, I didn't grow up in New York.	是的，我并不在纽约长大。
I grew up out west in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, like you see here, in the Red Rock Canyon.	正如你们看到的照片，我在西瓦内华达山区 红岩峡谷长大。
And from these early experiences as a child I learned to love landscapes.	由于我儿时的经历， 我渐渐地爱上了自然景观。
And so when it became time for me to do my graduate studies, I studied this emerging field of landscape ecology.	所以，当我要着手我的研究生课程时， 我学习了景观生态学--这门新兴领域的研究。
Landscape ecology concerns itself with how the stream and the meadow and the forest and the cliffs make habitats for plants and animals.	景观生态学关注诸如 河流、草地、森林和悬崖是怎样 为动植物提供栖息地的问题。
This experience and this training lead me to get a wonderful job with the Wildlife Conservation Society, which works to save wildlife and wild places all over the world.	而这份经历和学术培训， 使我获得了与野生动物保护协会共事的绝佳机会， 这份工作致力于拯救世界各地的野生动物和野生地区生态。
And over the last decade, I traveled to over 40 countries to see jaguars and bears and elephants and tigers and rhinos.	在过去的10年中， 我前往四十多个国家， 观察那里的美洲虎、熊、大象， 以及老虎和犀牛。
But every time I would return from my trips I'd return back to New York City.	但是每一次我旅途回来，到纽约市。
And on my weekends I would go up, just like all the other tourists, to the top of the Empire State Building, and I'd look down on this landscape, on these ecosystems, and I'd wonder, "How does this landscape work to make habitat for plants and animals?	在周末，我就会像所有的游客一样， 爬到帝国大厦的顶楼。 我也会向下俯瞰这里的风景和生态系统， 于是我便疑惑："这里的景观 是怎样为动植物提供居住场所的?
How does it work to make habitat for animals like me?"	它又是怎样为像我这样的动物提供居住地的呢？"
I'd go to Times Square and I'd look at the amazing ladies on the wall, and wonder why nobody is looking at the historical figures just behind them.	我也会去时代广场，看一看那墙上美丽的女士们， 然后疑惑：为什么没有人关注她们过去的祖辈？
I'd go to Central Park and see the rolling topography of Central Park come up against the abrupt and sheer topography of midtown Manhattan.	我也到中央公园去，看着中央公园起伏的地形， 与此对比的是陡峭的 曼哈顿中城地形。
I started reading about the history and the geography in New York City.	于是，我开始阅读有关纽约市的历史和地理资料。
I read that New York City was the first mega-city, a city of 10 million people or more, in 1950.	我了解到纽约市是第一座特大城市， 在1950年便拥有超过一千万人口。
I started seeing paintings like this.	我开始察看这样的画作。
For those of you who are from New York, this is 125th street under the West Side Highway.	对于你们这些来自纽约的人而言， 这是城西高速公路下的125街。
It was once a beach. And this painting has John James Audubon, the painter, sitting on the rock.	这里曾是一个沙滩。而这幅图里 有画家奥杜邦坐在岩石上的身影。
And it's looking up on the wooded heights of Washington Heights to Jeffrey's Hook, where the George Washington Bridge goes across today.	上方的林地便是华盛顿高地， 杰佛瑞虎克灯塔方向，即是今日乔治‧华盛顿大桥横跨的所在。
Or this painting, from the 1740s, from Greenwich Village.	再来看这幅图，描绘的是18世纪40年代的格林威治村。
Those are two students at King's College -- later Columbia University -- sitting on a hill, overlooking a valley.	国王学院（后来成为哥伦比亚大学）的两位学生 坐在山丘上俯瞰整个村庄。
And so I'd go down to Greenwich Village and I'd look for this hill, and I couldn't find it. And I couldn't find that palm tree.	所以我来到格林威治村，想要找到那座山丘。 但是我找不到它，当然也找不到那棵棕榈树。
What's that palm tree doing there?	那棵棕榈树到底在哪呢？
So, it was in the course of these investigations that I ran into a map.	所以，我是在调查的过程中偶遇这张地图的。
And it's this map you see here.	也就是你所见的这一张。
It's held in a geographic information system which allows me to zoom in.	它被保存在地理信息系统中， 我把它放大。
This map isn't from Hudson's time, but from the American Revolution, 170 years later, made by British military cartographers during the occupation of New York City.	但这幅地图并不来自于哈德逊的时代，而是来自于美国革命时期。 170年后，由英国军事制图员 在英占领纽约市时绘制的。
And it's a remarkable map. It's in the National Archives here in Kew.	这是一张很杰出的地图，现存于伦敦克佑区的英国国立档案馆中。
And it's 10 feet long and three and a half feet wide.	它长10英尺，宽3.5英尺。
And if I zoom in to lower Manhattan you can see the extent of New York City as it was, right at the end of the American Revolution.	如果我放大到曼哈顿下城区， 你便可以看见纽约市 在美国革命末的模样。
Here's Bowling Green. And here's Broadway.	这里是鲍灵格林，而这里是百老汇街。
And this is City Hall Park.	这里是市府公园。
So the city basically extended to City Hall Park.	所以这座城市基本延伸到市府公园。
And just beyond it you can see features that have vanished, things that have disappeared.	再往上走，便能看到 地形已改变，景观已消失。
This is the Collect Pond, which was the fresh water source for New York City for its first 200 years, and for the Native Americans for thousands of years before that.	这个蓄水池，曾是纽约市建立初的200年间 城市的淡水来源。 它也是土著美国人此前千百年来的淡水来源。
You can see the Lispenard Meadows draining down through here, through what is TriBeCa now, and the beaches that come up from the Battery, all the way to 42nd St.	你可以看到利兹本纳德草地 水流流经此地，即现在的三角地翠贝卡区。 而海滩从炮台 一路延伸至42街。
This map was made for military reasons.	这幅图的绘制出于军事考虑。
They're mapping the roads, the buildings, these fortifications that they built.	所以他们标记了道路、楼房 和他们所建造的堡垒。
But they're also mapping things of ecological interest, also military interest: the hills, the marshes, the streams.	但是他们也标记了一些富有生态意义 以及军事意义的事物：山丘 沼泽和水流。
This is Richmond Hill, and Minetta Water, which used to run its way through Greenwich Village.	这是列治文山，还有米尼塔河。 它从前经由这条路流入格林威治村。
Or the swamp at Gramercy Park, right here.	格拉姆西公园的沼泽在这儿，
Or Murray Hill. And this is the Murrays' house on Murray Hill, 200 years ago.	还有莫里山，这儿是莫里之家 200年前在莫里山上。
Here is Times Square, the two streams that came together to make a wetland in Times Square, as it was at the end of the American Revolution.	这里是时代广场， 两股水流在这里汇合，形成了湿地。 这时正值美国革命末。
So I saw this remarkable map in a book.	我在一本书上看到这张了不起的地图。
And I thought to myself, "You know, if I could georeference this map, if I could place this map in the grid of the city today, I could find these lost features of the city, in the block-by-block geography that people know, the geography of where people go to work, and where they go to live, and where they like to eat."	当时我想，"如果我可以对这张地图进行地理座标参照， 把这张地图放在今日纽约市的格局上， 我就能找出 这座城市失落的景观。 一块块地拼出人们熟悉的地貌， 比如人们上班地点和他们居住地方的地貌， 以及他们喜爱的餐厅的地貌。"
So, after some work we were able to georeference it, which allows us to put the modern streets on the city, and the buildings, and the open spaces, so that we can zoom in to where the Collect Pond is.	所以经过一些努力之后，我们对它进行了地理座标参照定位， 使我们能够把现代的道路、 楼房和空地放到城市中。 这样我们就可以放大蓄水湖的位置。
We can digitize the Collect Pond and the streams, and see where they actually are in the geography of the city today.	我们可以将蓄水湖和水流都数字化， 我们也就可以知道它们在今天的城市地理中的位置。
So this is fun for finding where things are relative to the old topography.	有趣的是比照旧的地形 找出现在的位置。
But I had another idea about this map.	但是我对这张地图还有别的想法。
If we take away the streets, and if we take away the buildings, and if we take away the open spaces, then we could take this map.	如果我们拿走这些街道，如果我们拿走这些楼房， 如果我们拿走这些绿色空地， 然后我们可以得到这张地图。
If we pull off the 18th century features we could drive it back in time.	如果我们可以展现18世纪的特征， 我们回到过去的时间。
We could drive it back to its ecological fundamentals: to the hills, to the streams, to the basic hydrology and shoreline, to the beaches, the basic aspects that make the ecological landscape.	我们也可以还原过去生态基础的特征： 那些山丘、水流 基本水文、海岸线、海滩…… 那些构成生态景观的基本方面。
Then, if we added maps like the geology, the bedrock geology, and the surface geology, what the glaciers leave, if we make the soil map, with the 17 soil classes, that are defined by the National Conservation Service, if we make a digital elevation model of the topography that tells us how high the hills were, then we can calculate the slopes.	随后，如果我们加上地质学、基岩地质学， 和地表地质学，冰川遗迹； 如果我们制作土壤地图， 包含国家土壤保护所认定的 17种土壤； 如果我们可以制作一个数字地形高度模型 告诉我们那些山丘的高度， 我们就可以计算它们的坡度。
We can calculate the aspect.	是的，我们可以计算各方面的数据。
We can calculate the winter wind exposure -- so, which way the winter winds blow across the landscape.	我们可以计算冬季风的风向-- 也就是冬季风是怎样吹过地面景观的。
The white areas on this map are the places protected from the winter winds.	地图上白色的部分是不受冬季风侵扰的地方。
We compiled all the information about where the Native Americans were, the Lenape.	我们收集了美洲原住民勒纳佩族所有曾居住的地点的信息。
And we built a probability map about where they might have been.	然后我们建立了一个他们可能居住地点的地图。
So, the red areas on this map indicate the places that are best for human sustainability on Manhattan, places that are close to water, places that are near the harbor to fish, places protected from the winter winds.	地图上红色的部分指出 曼哈顿岛上最适宜人类可持续居住的地点。 那些靠近水源的， 靠近渔港的， 不受冬季风侵扰的地方。
We know that there was a Lenape settlement down here by the Collect Pond.	我们知道从前有一个勒纳佩族的定居点， 位于南部毗邻蓄水池的地方。
And we knew that they planted a kind of horticulture, that they grew these beautiful gardens of corn, beans, and squash, the "Three Sisters" garden.	我们也了解到他们有园艺种植的习惯， 他们有美丽的玉米，豆类和南瓜园地， 即"蔬菜三姐妹"园地。
So, we built a model that explains where those fields might have been.	于是，我们建立了一个模型，来解释这些园地可能存在的地方。
And the old fields, the successional fields that go.	还有过去的园地及其周边园地的情况。
And we might think of these as abandoned.	我们或许会以为它们被遗弃了。
But, in fact, they're grassland habitats for grassland birds and plants.	但事实上，它们现在是草地， 为草地鸟类和植物提供栖息地；
And they have become successional shrub lands, and these then mix in to a map of all the ecological communities.	或是已经形成灌木林地。 这就混合成这张汇集所有生态社区的地图。
And it turns out that Manhattan had 55 different ecosystem types.	由此，我们了解到曼哈顿岛曾有55种不同的生态系统。
You can think of these as neighborhoods, as distinctive as TriBeCa and the Upper East Side and Inwood -- that these are the forest and the wetlands and the marine communities, the beaches.	你可以把它们想作邻里关系， 各自独特的就像三角地翠贝卡去，上东城区和Inwood区-- 那里有森林和湿地； 水生群落和沙滩。
And 55 is a lot. On a per-area basis, Manhattan had more ecological communities per acre than Yosemite does, than Yellowstone, than Amboseli.	55种生态系统很庞大。在平均面积的角度上， 曼哈顿岛每英亩拥有的生态群落的数量 甚至比优山美地国家公园多， 也比美国黄石公园和肯尼亚安伯塞利保护公园多。
It was really an extraordinary landscape that was capable of supporting an extraordinary biodiversity.	这实在是非常奇异的景观， 竟能够支持如此奇特的生物多样性。
So, Act II: A Home Reconstructed.	接下来，第二部分：一个重建的家园。
So, we studied the fish and the frogs and the birds and the bees, the 85 different kinds of fish that were on Manhattan, the Heath hens, the species that aren't there anymore, the beavers on all the streams, the black bears, and the Native Americans, to study how they used and thought about their landscape.	我们对鱼类、蛙类、鸟类和蜂类进行了研究， 在曼哈顿，曾有85种鱼类， 有已经灭绝的新英格兰草原松鸡， 还有曾经在所有溪流中发现的海狸及黑熊。 我们也研究了土著居民怎样利用、 思考他们的地质景观的。
We wanted to try and map these. And to do that what we did was we mapped their habitat needs.	我们想要标记它们。为此我们做的是 标记它们的居住需要。
Where do they get their food?	他们从哪儿得到食物？
Where do they get their water? Where do they get their shelter?	他们从哪儿取水？他们避护住所是什么样的？
Where do they get their reproductive resources?	他们从哪儿得到生殖资源？
To an ecologist, the intersection of these is habitat, but to most people, the intersection of these is their home.	对于一个生态学家而言，这之间的交汇便是栖息地。 但对于大多数人而言，这之间的交汇是他们的家。
So, we would read in field guides, the standard field guides that maybe you have on your shelves, you know, what beavers need is "A slowly meandering stream with aspen trees and alders and willows, near the water." That's the best thing for a beaver.	所以，我们想要阅读野外指南，标准野外指南， 就是你们书架上可能会有的那一类。 你知道，海狸需要的是"一条流速缓而曲折的溪流， 边上还得有白杨，赤杨和柳树。" 这就是最适合海狸的。
So we just started making a list.	所以我们开始列表。
Here is the beaver. And here is the stream, and the aspen and the alder and the willow.	这里是海狸，这里是水流， 这里则是白杨，赤杨和柳树。
As if these were the maps that we would need to predict where you would find the beaver.	如果这些就是我们所需的地图， 我们就可以预测在哪里你能够找到一只海狸。
Or the bog turtle, needing wet meadows and insects and sunny places.	或者一只牟氏龟，需要湿草地、昆虫和阳光充裕的地方。
Or the bobcat, needing rabbits and beavers and den sites.	或者是一只山猫，需要野兔、海狸和洞穴。
And rapidly we started to realize that beavers can be something that a bobcat needs.	于是我们很快意识到海狸可能会是 山猫需要的东西。
But a beaver also needs things. And that having it on either side means that we can link it together, that we can create the network of the habitat relationships for these species.	但是海狸本身也需要某些东西。所以无论 把它们放在捕食者或被捕食者的一边，我们都能把它们连接起来。 于是，我们有了 这些物种栖息关系的网络。
Moreover, we realized that you can start out as being a beaver specialist, but you can look up what an aspen needs.	另外，我们也意识到你可以 以一个海狸专家的身份开始研究， 但是你需要知道白杨需要的东西。
An aspen needs fire and dry soils.	白杨喜光，强阳性和干燥的土壤。
And you can look at what a wet meadow needs.	然后你可以知道湿草地需要什么。
And it need beavers to create the wetlands, and maybe some other things.	它需要海狸创造湿地， 或许还有其它的东西。
But you can also talk about sunny places.	但是你可以再想想阳光灿烂的地方。
So, what does a sunny place need? Not habitat per se.	那么，阳光灿烂的地方需要什么？本身不是栖息地。
But what are the conditions that make it possible?	但是，在何种情况下才有可能呢？
Or fire. Or dry soils.	或为阳光，或为干土。
And that you can put these on a grid that's 1,000 columns long across the top and 1,000 rows down the other way.	这样一来，你可以将这些联系画在1000栏的格线上， 左侧也填入1000格资料。
And then we can visualize this data like a network, like a social network.	然后我们将这些数据网状图像化， 就像一个社交网络。
And this is the network of all the habitat relationships of all the plants and animals on Manhattan, and everything they needed, going back to the geology, going back to time and space at the very core of the web.	这张网络汇集所有的栖息关系， 所有生活在曼哈顿岛上的动植物， 以及所有它们需要的东西。 我们于是能够回到地质学的范畴， 回到网络核心的时间和空间位置。
We call this the Muir Web. And if you zoom in on it it looks like this.	我们把这叫做缪尔网络。如果你放大，它会是这样的。
Each point is a different species or a different stream or a different soil type.	每一个点都代表一个不同的物种 或者一条不同的溪流或土壤种类。
And those little gray lines are the connections that connect them together.	而这些灰色的线表示将它们联系起来的关联。
They are the connections that actually make nature resilient.	这些连线恢复了自然生态活力。
And the structure of this is what makes nature work, seen with all its parts.	这种结构则是自然的运作机理， 每一个部分，正如你所见。
We call these Muir Webs after the Scottish-American naturalist John Muir, who said, "When we try to pick out anything by itself, we find that it's bound fast by a thousand invisible cords that cannot be broken, to everything in the universe."	我们把它称作缪尔网络，以纪念美籍苏格兰裔自然学家 约翰·缪尔，他曾说："当我们试着举出一个自身事物， 我们总会发现它被数以千计的看不见的关系牵连， 对于任何宇宙中的事物，这种联系都不能被打破。"
So then we took the Muir webs and we took them back to the maps.	之后我们引用了缪尔网络并把它带回地图上。
So if we wanted to go between 85th and 86th, and Lex and Third, maybe there was a stream in that block.	如果我们想去85街和86街之间的区域， 以及莱克星顿街和3街之间的地方， 或许在那个街区里曾有一条溪流。
And these would be the kind of trees that might have been there, and the flowers and the lichens and the mosses, the butterflies, the fish in the stream, the birds in the trees.	或许某种树类曾在那里生长， 还有花、地衣和苔藓， 蝴蝶和水中的鱼， 树上的鸟。
Maybe a timber rattlesnake lived there.	或许还有一只森林响尾蛇生活在那儿。
And perhaps a black bear walked by. And maybe Native Americans were there.	或许一只黑熊曾出没过，或许土著居民也生活在那里。
And then we took this data.	然后我们应用了这些资料。
You can see this for yourself on our website.	你可以亲自访问我们的网站，
You can zoom into any block on Manhattan, and see what might have been there 400 years ago.	你可以放大曼哈顿任何的街区， 然后看一看400年前那里的模样。
And we used it to try and reveal a landscape here in Act III.	而我们用它来重现景观。 最后，第三部分。
We used the tools they use in Hollywood to make these fantastic landscapes that we all see in the movies.	我们使用了当今好莱坞惯用的工具 来制作这些只有在电影中才看得到的奇幻的自然景观。
And we tried to use it to visualize Third Avenue.	我们尝试图像化第三大道。
So we would take the landscape and we would build up the topography.	我们取得并绘制地貌地形。
We'd lay on top of that the soils and the waters, and illuminate the landscape.	我们还原土壤和河流，恢复以前地貌。
We would lay on top of that the map of the ecological communities.	我们把生态群落放到地图的顶层，
And feed into that the map of the species.	并填充物种地图。
So that we would actually take a photograph, flying above Times Square, looking toward the Hudson River, waiting for Hudson to come.	这样一来，我们甚至可以拍照片， 飞跃时代广场，面朝哈得逊河的方向， 等待哈得逊先生的到来。
Using this technology, we can make these fantastic georeferenced views.	使用这种技术，我们有了 这些引人入胜的地理坐标参照景观。
We can basically take a picture out of any window on Manhattan and see what that landscape looked like 400 years ago.	我们很容易拍摄到曼哈顿岛上任何视角的照片， 然后看一看它四百年前的样子。
This is the view from the East River, looking up Murray Hill at where the United Nations is today.	这是从东河向莫里山看到 今天联合国总部所在的位置。
This is the view looking down the Hudson River, with Manhattan on the left, and New Jersey out on the right, looking out toward the Atlantic Ocean.	这是俯瞰哈德逊河。 左边是曼哈顿，右边是新泽西州， 朝着大西洋。
This is the view over Times Square, with the beaver pond there, looking out toward the east.	这是时代广场上空的景致， 海狸水塘在那儿，朝东面看。
So we can see the Collect Pond, and Lispenard Marshes back behind.	我们可以看见蓄水池，立兹本纳德沼泽在其后。
We can see the fields that the Native Americans made.	我们可以看见那些土著美国人开垦的园地。
And we can see this in the geography of the city today.	我们也可以在今天的城市中看到它。
So when you're watching "Law and Order," and the lawyers walk up the steps they could have walked back down those steps of the New York Court House, right into the Collect Pond, 400 years ago.	所以当你看到电视剧"法律与秩序"中的律师沿着纽约法院前的阶梯径直走， 要是400年前，他们则是 走进蓄水塘 。
So these images are the work of my friend and colleague, Mark Boyer, who is here in the audience today.	这些图像是我的朋友和同事的杰作。 马克波耶尔先生，今天他也在观众席中。
And I'd just like, if you would give him a hand, to call out for his fine work.	在这里我希望在座各位可以为他鼓掌， 感谢他的出色表现。
There is such power in bringing science and visualization together, that we can create images like this, perhaps looking on either side of a looking glass.	科技与视觉化技术确实能够有这样的力量， 使我们创造出了如此的图像。 或许这就是看着镜子的两面。
And even though I've only had a brief time to speak, I hope you appreciate that Mannahatta was a very special place.	尽管今天时间有限， 我仍希望你们能够意识到曼哈顿是一个很特别的地方。
The place that you see here on the left side was interconnected. It was based on this diversity.	在这里，你所看到左侧生态是相互关联的， 而这是基于生态的多样性而言的。
It had this resilience that is what we need in our modern world.	它拥有的活力正是当今世界所需要的。
But I wouldn't have you think that I don't like the place on the right, which I quite do. I've come to love the city and its kind of diversity, and its resilience, and its dependence on density and how we're connected together.	但是我不希望让你们认为我不喜欢右边的地方（现在的曼哈顿）， 事实上，我很爱纽约，让我爱上它的 正是这座城市的多样性和活力， 以及人口稠密区的互相依存、我们是怎样联系在一起的。
In fact, that I see them as reflections of each other, much as Lewis Carroll did in "Through the Looking Glass."	实际上，我把它们看作是各自的倒影。 确实很像是刘易斯卡洛尔在"透过镜子看"中的想法。
We can compare these two and hold them in our minds at the same time, that they really are the same place, that there is no way that cities can escape from nature.	我们可以比较这两者，并同时在心中拥有它们， 因为它们确实是同一处地点， 城市也是无论如何离不开自然的。
And I think this is what we're learning about building cities in the future.	我认为，这是我们学习如何建造未来城市的一种借鉴。
So if you'll allow me a brief epilogue, not about the past, but about 400 years from now, what we're realizing is that cities are habitats for people, and need to supply what people need: a sense of home, food, water, shelter, reproductive resources, and a sense of meaning.	所以允许我做一个简短的总结，这不仅关于过去的， 而是以后的400年， 我们想到， 城市是人类居住的场所， 需要提供人类需要的东西： 一种家的感觉、食物、水和庇护住所， 繁殖资源和一种有意义的感觉。
This is the particular additional habitat requirement of humanity.	这是一种人类特有的对栖息地的要求。
And so many of the talks here at TED are about meaning, about bringing meaning to our lives in all kinds of different ways, through technology, through art, through science, so much so that I think we focus so much on that side of our lives, that we haven't given enough attention to the food and the water and the shelter, and what we need to raise the kids.	也有这么多TED演讲是关于意义的， 关于如何将意义带入我们的生活 的方方面面，通过技术、 通过艺术、通过科学， 多到我认为我们把太多的关注 投向生活方面，同时我们对于 食物、水源、住所， 以及我们所需供给孩子的东西的关注却不够。
So, how can we envision the city of the future?	所以，我们又该怎样展望城市的未来呢？
Well, what if we go to Madison Square Park, and we imagine it without all the cars, and bicycles instead and large forests, and streams instead of sewers and storm drains?	那么，如果我们走到麦迪逊广场公园， 想象周围没有汽车， 而是自行车， 以及大片的森林、溪流，而不是下水道和排水管，世界会怎样？
What if we imagined the Upper East Side with green roofs, and streams winding through the city, and windmills supplying the power we need?	如果我们想象在上东区， 有绿色的自然屋顶，溪流蜿蜒穿过城市， 风车提供我们所需的能量，世界又会怎样？
Or if we imagine the New York City metropolitan area, currently home to 12 million people, but 12 million people in the future, perhaps living at the density of Manhattan, in only 36 percent of the area, with the areas in between covered by farmland, covered by wetlands, covered by the marshes we need.	又或者，当我们想象，纽约市的大都会地区， 目前是一千两百万人的家， 但未来可能将有一千两百万人住在曼哈顿的人口稠密区， 那仅仅是本区36%的土地面积， 其间被人们所需的农田、 湿地、 沼泽覆盖。
This is the kind of future I think we need, is a future that has the same diversity and abundance and dynamism of Manhattan, but that learns from the sustainability of the past, of the ecology, the original ecology, of nature with all its parts.	这就是我心目中，人们所需的未来， 一个同样多的生物多样性、 丰富性和活力性的曼哈顿， 同时借鉴了过去的可持续生存之道， 无论是生态学、原始生态学还是大自然的一切。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢！
I started Improv Everywhere about 10 years ago when I moved to New York City with an interest in acting and comedy.	大约十年前我创立了"随处即兴" 当时我刚搬到纽约，对表演和喜剧充满兴趣
Because I was new to the city, I didn't have access to a stage, so I decided to create my own in public places.	因为初来乍到，我找不到舞台落脚 于是我决定在公共场所创造我的大舞台
So the first project we're going to take a look at is the very first No Pants Subway Ride.	我们将要看到的第一个活动就是 "首届不穿裤子乘地铁"
Now this took place in January of 2002.	那是在2002年1月
And this woman is the star of the video.	这位女士就是女主角
She doesn't know she's being filmed.	她不知道自己被拍摄
She's being filmed with a hidden camera.	一个隐蔽摄像头纪录了这一切
This is on the 6 train in New York City.	这是纽约地铁6号线
And this is the first stop along the line.	这是这条线路的第一站
These are two Danish guys who come out and sit down next to the hidden camera.	两个丹麦人上来了 他们坐到了隐蔽摄像头的旁边
And that's me right there in a brown coat.	穿着咖啡色外套的就是我
It's about 30 degrees outside.	当时室外温度大概是零下一度
I'm wearing a hat. I'm wearing a scarf.	我戴着帽子和围巾
And the girl's going to notice me right here.	她马上就注意到我了
And as you'll see now, I'm not wearing pants.	而你现在可见，我没穿裤子
So at this point -- at this point she's noticed me, but in New York there's weirdos on any given train car.	现在 她注意到我了 但是在纽约，地铁里怪人随处可见
One person's not that unusual.	一个人没有什么稀奇的
She goes back to reading her book, which is unfortunately titled "Rape."	她继续看书，巧得很书名叫《强奸》
So she's noticed the unusual thing, but she's gone back to her normal life.	她注意到奇怪的事 但很快恢复常态
Now in the meantime, I have six friends who are waiting at the next six consecutive stops in their underwear as well.	与此同时，我的6个朋友 再接下来的6个站只穿着内裤等着
They're going to be entering this car one by one.	他们将一个接一个进来
We'll act as though we don't know each other.	我们装作相互不认识
And we'll act as if it's just an unfortunate mistake we've made, forgetting our pants on this cold January day.	我们都装作 只是碰巧在这寒冬腊月 都忘了穿裤子
So at this point, she decides to put the rape book away.	现在 她把书合上
And she decides to be a little bit more aware of her surroundings.	决定看看到底是怎么一回事
Now in the meantime, the two Danish guys to the left of the camera, they're cracking up.	这时候摄像头旁的两名丹麦男子 已经乐不可支了
They think this is the funniest thing they've ever seen before.	他们觉得这是自己看到的最搞笑的事情
And watch her make eye contact with them right about now.	你看她在跟他们眼神示意
And I love that moment in this video, because before it became a shared experience, it was something that was maybe a little bit scary, or something that was at least confusing to her.	我最喜欢视频里这一刻 因为这成为一个共同经历 这事也许有点吓人 至少有点让人摸不着头脑
And then once it became a shared experience, it was funny and something that she could laugh at.	但是一旦这一经历被人所共享 我就变成一个搞笑滑稽的主体
So the train is now pulling into the third stop along the 6 line.	现在到了 6号线第三站
So the video won't show everything.	这个视频不会展示全部
This goes on for another four stops.	接下来还有四站
A total of seven guys enter anonymously in their underwear.	7个只穿内裤的男人陆续上车
At the eighth stop, a girl came in with a giant duffel bag and announced she had pants for sale for a dollar -- like you might sell batteries or candy on the train.	第八站一个提着大帆布袋子的女士上车了 一美元一条裤子减价大甩卖 就象别人在车上卖电池或者糖果之类
We all very matter of factly bought a pair of pants, put them on and said, "Thank you. That's exactly what I needed today," and then exited without revealing what had happened and went in all different directions.	我们每人买了一条裤子穿上 然后对她说："多谢了，真是雪中送炭！" 然后不说什么都下车了 各奔东西
Thank you.	谢谢
So that's a still from the video there.	这是暂停的一个画面
And I love that girl's reaction so much.	我十分喜欢她对此的反应
And watching that videotape later that day inspired me to keep doing what I do.	那天晚些时候我又看了看这个视频 这启发了我应该继续做类似的事
And really one of the points of Improv Everywhere is to cause a scene in a public place that is a positive experience for other people.	而"随处即兴"的宗旨 就是在公共场合创造一个 对其他人来说成为积极经历的场景
It's a prank, but it's a prank that gives somebody a great story to tell.	这是个恶作剧，但这个恶作剧得以让人们分享很棒的故事
And her reaction inspired me to do a second annual No Pants Subway Ride.	她的反应启发了我 来举办第二届"不穿裤子乘地铁"
And we've continued to do it every year.	这变成一项年度活动
This January, we did the 10th annual No Pants Subway Ride where a diverse group of 3,500 people rode the train in their underwear in New York -- almost every single train line in the city.	今年1月，我们举办了第十届"不穿裤子乘地铁" 大约有3,500名各种背景的人 在纽约地铁上共同上演了这个好戏－ 几乎每一趟列车上都能见到
And also in 50 other cities around the world, people participated.	同时在世界各地其他50个城市 也有人参与了
As I started taking improv class at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater and meeting other creative people and other performers and comedians, I started amassing a mailing list of people who wanted to do these types of projects.	我开始在正直公民旅团剧院上即兴艺术的课程 并得以见到其他的创意人士，演员和喜剧明星们 我开始大量收集 对此类行动有兴趣的人的邮件地址
So I could do more large-scale projects.	来扩大我的表演阵容
Well one day I was walking through Union Square, and I saw this building, which had just been built in 2005.	一天我经过联合广场 看到这栋楼 于2005落成
And there was a girl in one of the windows and she was dancing.	有一个橱窗前一个女孩在跳舞
And it was very peculiar, because it was dark out, but she was back-lit with florescent lighting, and she was very much onstage, and I couldn't figure out why she was doing it.	非常奇特的景象 因为周围都很暗 荧光从她背后照过来 就是浑然天成的舞台一样 我不明白她干嘛这么做
After about 15 seconds, her friend appeared -- she had been hiding behind a display -- and they laughed and hugged each other and ran away.	大概15秒后她的朋友出现了－ 她躲在一个展板后面 她们大笑着拥抱了对方然后跑开了
So it seemed like maybe she had been dared to do this.	估计她们在玩真心话大冒险
So I got inspired by that.	我受到了启发
Looking at the entire facade -- there were 70 total windows -- and I knew what I had to do.	我望着整栋楼的正面－一共有70个窗户 我知道怎么办了
So this project is called Look Up More. We had 70 actors dress in black.	这个活动就叫做"再抬头看看"，我们有70个着黑衣的舞者
This was completely unauthorized.	这未经批准
We didn't let the stores know we were coming.	我们不想商场知道我们的计划
And I stood in the park giving signals.	我站在公园给指示
The first signal was for everybody to hold up these four-foot tall letters that spelled out "Look Up More," the name of the project.	第一个指示是每个人都举起这些四英尺高的字母 拼起来就是"再抬头看看" 即活动名称
The second signal was for everybody to do Jumping jacks together.	第二个指示是每个人做踢腿跳
You'll see that start right here.	你这会儿就能看到
And then we had dancing. We had everyone dance.	然后是跳舞 每个人都跳
And then we had dance solos where only one person would dance and everybody would point to them.	接下来就是独舞 所有人就都指着他们
So then I gave a new hand signal, which signaled the next soloist down below in Forever 21, and he danced.	然后我的手出了一个新指示 示意楼下Forever21的人独舞 他就跳起来了
There were several other activities.	还有一些其他形式的表演
We had people jumping up and down, people dropping to the ground.	有的上下蹦跳 有的摔倒地上
And I was standing just anonymously in a sweatshirt, putting my hand on and off of a trashcan to signal the advancement.	我就穿着一件套头衫，默默站在人群里 把手放上放下一个垃圾桶 来给出下一步的指示
And because it was in Union Square Park, right by a subway station, there were hundreds of people by the end who stopped and looked up and watched what we were doing.	因为这是在联合广场公园 离地铁站很近 最后有好几百人 停下来观看 我们的表演
There's a better photo of it.	这个照片比较清楚
So that particular event was inspired by a moment that I happened to stumble upon.	那么这个活动 仅仅是由 我受自己偶然间的观察启发而生的
The next project I want to show was given to me in an email from a stranger.	下一个我想分享的项目 来自一个陌生人的电子邮件
A high school kid in Texas wrote me in 2006 and said, "You should get as many people as possible to put on blue polo shirts and khaki pants and go into a Best Buy and stand around."	2006年德克萨斯一个高中生写信给我 说："你应该聚齐尽可能多的人 穿着蓝色polo衫和卡其裤子 跑到百思买去站着。"
So I wrote this high school kid back immediately, and I said, "Yes, you are correct.	我立马给他回了邮件 说："你说的一点没错。
I think I'll try to do that this weekend. Thank you."	这周末我就会努力实行，谢谢！"
So here's the video.	就是这个视频
So again, this is 2005.	这还是在2005年
This is the Best Buy in New York City.	纽约市的百思买
We had about 80 people show up to participate, entering one-by-one.	大约有80人参加 他们一个接一个进入商店
There was an eight year-old girl, a 10 year-old girl.	有八岁的女孩，十岁的女孩
There was also a 65 year-old man who participated.	还有65岁的男人 都参加了
So a very diverse group of people.	因此参加人员十分广泛
And I told people, "Don't work. Don't actually do work.	我告诉他们："别表现出你真在工作
But also, don't shop.	但是也别买什么
Just stand around and don't face products."	就四处转转别看产品。"
Now you can see the regular employees by the ones that have the yellow tags on their shirt.	正式职员的T恤上 是有黄色牌子的
Everybody else is one of our actors.	其他的都是我们的演员
The lower level employees thought it was very funny.	基层职员觉得这很搞笑
And in fact, several of them went to go get their camera from the break room and took photos with us.	实际上，甚至有人从休息室拿了相机 要和我们拍照留念
A lot of them made jokes about trying to get us to go to the back to get heavy television sets for customers.	很多人开玩笑说让我们一起去仓库 为客人把沉重的电视机抬出来
The managers and the security guards, on the other hand, did not find it particularly funny.	不过，商店的经理和保安 可没觉得这有什么搞笑的
You can see them in this footage.	这个镜头里能看到
They're wearing either a yellow shirt or a black shirt.	他们穿着黄色或者黑色T恤
And we were there probably 10 minutes before the managers decided to dial 911.	我们待了大概10钟 经理觉得要打911报警了
So they started running around telling everybody the cops were coming, watch out, the cops were coming.	于是他们就开始到处跑 通知其他人，注意点，警察要来了
And you can see the cops in this footage right here.	这个镜头里能看到警察
That's a cop wearing black right there, being filmed with a hidden camera.	一个隐蔽摄像头拍到了这个警察
Ultimately, the police had to inform Best Buy management that it was not, in fact, illegal to wear a blue polo shirt and khaki pants.	最终警察告诉百思买的经理 穿蓝色polo衫和卡其裤 不能算违法
Thank you.	谢谢
So we had been there for 20 minutes; we were happy to exit the store.	于是我们待了将近有20分钟后， 愉快地离开了百思买
One thing the managers were trying to do was to track down our cameras.	经理尝试要 追查我们的相机
And they caught a couple of my guys who had hidden cameras in duffel bags.	他们发现我们几个人在帆布包里藏里摄像机
But the one camera guy they never caught was the guy that went in just with a blank tape and went over to the Best Buy camera department and just put his tape in one of their cameras and pretended to shop.	但是有个摄像的却一直没被发现 他带里个空带进去 进了百思买的相机摄影机部门 就把空带放进其中一个摄像机 假装试机
So I like that concept of using their own technology against them.	我很喜欢这个想法，用他们的技术应对对方
I think our best projects are ones that are site specific and happen at a particular place for a reason.	我想最好的行动计划是在特定场所 有原因地发生
And one morning, I was riding the subway.	有天早上我去乘地铁
I had to make a transfer at the 53rd St. stop where there are these two giant escalators.	我得在53街站换乘 那儿有两个超长的电梯
And it's a very depressing place to be in the morning, it's very crowded.	而那是个让人一大早就感到很压抑的地方 人非常多
So I decided to try and stage something that could make it as happy as possible for one morning.	我决定要尝试点什么，演上一出 能让人觉得开心 哪怕只是一早上
So this was in the winter of 2009 -- 8:30 in the morning.	这是2009年冬天－ 早上八点半
It's morning rush hour.	上班高峰期
It's very cold outside.	外面非常冷
People are coming in from Queens, transferring from the E train to the 6 train.	都是从皇后区过来的乘客 从E号线转乘6号线
And they're going up these giant escalators on their way to their jobs.	他们搭着这超长电梯 去往工作的路上
Thank you.	谢谢
So there's a photograph that illustrates it a little bit better.	另外一张照片照的比较好点
He gave 2,000 high fives that day, and he washed his hands before and afterward and did not get sick.	他那天击掌里两千次 行动前后都洗过手了 没生病
And that was done also without permission, although no one seemed to care.	这个行动没有经过批准 不过似乎也没人理
So I'd say over the years, one of the most common criticisms I see of Improv Everywhere left anonymously on YouTube comments is: "These people have too much time on their hands."	这几年 我见过Youtube上对于"随处即兴" 最常见的评论之一是 "这帮人真是闲得慌"
And you know, not everybody's going to like everything you do, and I've certainly developed a thick skin thanks to Internet comments, but that one's always bothered me, because we don't have too much time on our hands.	不是每个人都喜欢你做的所有事 多亏这些评论我变得厚脸皮了 但就是这个评论很烦人 因为我们并没有那么闲
The participants at Improv Everywhere events have just as much leisure time as any other New Yorkers, they just occasionally choose to spend it in an unusual way.	"随处即兴"的参与者 不比其他纽约人空闲时间多 他们只是偶尔选择 一种不同的方式来休闲
You know, every Saturday and Sunday, hundreds of thousands of people each fall gather in football stadiums to watch games.	每年秋天每个周末 就有成千上万的人 去美式橄榄球场看球
And I've never seen anybody comment, looking at a football game, saying, "All those people in the stands, they have too much time on their hands."	从来没见谁看着比赛 说："看台上的这帮人真闲啊！"
And of course they don't.	当然不是这样
It's a perfectly wonderful way to spent a weekend afternoon, watching a football game in a stadium.	这只是一个度过周末下午的美好方式 在体育场看场球赛
But I think it's also a perfectly valid way to spend an afternoon freezing in place with 200 people in the Grand Central terminal or dressing up like a ghostbuster and running through the New York Public Library.	我觉得200人一齐 在纽约中央车站玩瞬间静止 也是很好的度过下午的方式 或者穿成捉鬼敢死队的样子 在纽约公共图书馆跑来跑去
Or listening to the same MP3 as 3,000 other people and dancing silently in a park, or bursting into song in a grocery store as part of a spontaneous musical, or diving into the ocean in Coney Island wearing formal attire.	或者三千多人一齐听着MP3 在公园里无声地跳舞 或者在超市突然放声唱歌 创作出即兴音乐剧 或者一帮人盛装冲进科尼岛的海滩
You know, as kids, we're taught to play.	孩提时候大人教我们玩
And we're never given a reason why we should play.	却从来没问我们为什么要玩
It's just acceptable that play is a good thing.	玩是积极的事情
And I think that's sort of the point of Improv Everywhere.	我想这就是"随处即兴"想要表达的
It's that there is no point and that there doesn't have to be a point.	其实我们并没有什么宗旨 也没必要有
We don't need a reason.	我们不需要原因去玩
As long as it's fun and it seems like it's going to be a funny idea and it seems like the people who witness it will also have a fun time, then that's enough for us.	只要一件事好玩 是个有意思的想法 看的人也会一同开心 那就足够了
And I think, as adults, we need to learn that there's no right or wrong way to play.	作为成年人 我们要认识到玩无止尽
Thank you very much.	非常感谢
In my previous life, I was an artist.	以前，我曾是个艺术家
I still paint. I love art.	我仍然画画，我喜欢艺术。
I love the joy that color can give to our lives and to our communities, and I try to bring something of the artist in me in my politics, and I see part of my job today, the reason for being here, not just to campaign for my party, but for politics, and the role it can play for the better in our lives.	我喜欢颜色给我们生活 和社会带来的喜悦 我尝试把我身上艺术家的那一面 带进政治， 我发现， 今天我工作的一部分，我站在这里的原因 不只是为我的党派宣传， 也是为政治，以及它在改善我们生活的方面 能起到的作用
For 11 years, I was mayor of Tirana, our capital.	我做我们的首都地拉那的市长有11年了
We faced many challenges.	我们面对过很多挑战
Art was part of the answer, and my name, in the very beginning, was linked with two things: demolition of illegal constructions in order to get public space back, and use of colors in order to revive the hope that had been lost in my city.	艺术解决了部分问题 起初，我的名字 与两样事情有关： 为恢复公共空间 而拆除违章建筑， 以及用颜色来重燃我们城市 丢失的希望
But this use of colors was not just an artistic act.	这些颜色的使用不光是为了追求艺术
Rather, it was a form of political action in a context when the city budget I had available after being elected amounted to zero comma something.	在当时，它更是一种政治行动 我当选以后 城市的预算经费所剩无几
When we painted the first building, by splashing a radiant orange on the somber gray of a facade, something unimaginable happened.	我们粉刷第一幢大楼时 在铅灰色的大楼正面 泼上了明亮的橙色 跟着不可思议的事情发生了
There was a traffic jam and a crowd of people gathered as if it were the location of some spectacular accident, or the sudden sighting of a visiting pop star.	一时交通阻塞 众人聚集 好像重大事故的现场 或者突然撞到了来游玩的明星
The French E.U. official in charge of the funding rushed to block the painting.	负责基金的法国欧盟官员 赶来阻止正在进行的喷涂作业
He screeched that he would block the financing.	他尖叫着说要中止融资
"But why?" I asked him.	我问他，"为什么呀？"
"Because the colors you have ordered do not meet European standards," he replied.	他回答说："你用的那些颜色 不符合欧洲标准。"
"Well," I told him, "the surroundings do not meet European standards, even though this is not what we want, but we will choose the colors ourselves, because this is exactly what we want.	我跟他说 "这周围的一切都不符合欧洲标准 尽管这也不是我们想要的 但是我们要自己选择颜色 因为这就是我们想要的
And if you do not let us continue with our work, I will hold a press conference here, right now, right in this road, and we will tell people that you look to me just like the censors of the socialist realism era."	如果你不让我们继续工作 我要马上举行一个新闻发布会 就在这条路上 我们会告诉人们你们提防着我们 就像社会主义现实主义时代的审查们。"
Then he was kind of troubled, and asked me for a compromise.	他也很为难 并请我作出让步
But I told him no, I'm sorry, compromise in colors is gray, and we have enough gray to last us a lifetime.	但我告诉他，很抱歉 妥协有颜色来表示的话是灰色 我们人生中已经有太多的灰色
So it's time for change.	（掌声) 是改变的时候啦
The rehabilitation of public spaces revived the feeling of belonging to a city that people lost.	恢复公共空间 会恢复人们对所遗失的城市 的归属感
The pride of people about their own place of living, and there were feelings that had been buried deep for years under the fury of the illegal, barbaric constructions that sprang up in the public space.	人们对自己居住地的自豪 以及多来年他们对 公共场所滋生的非法野蛮建筑 的愤慨背后的情感
And when colors came out everywhere, a mood of change started transforming the spirit of people.	当各处有了颜色 人们的精神开始转变
Big noise raised up: "What is this? What is happening?	有人大声问："这是什么？这是怎么回事？"
What are colors doing to us?"	这些颜色对我们有什么影响？
And we made a poll, the most fascinating poll I've seen in my life.	我们做了个民意调查 是我一生中见过的最迷人的调查
We asked people, "Do you want this action, and to have buildings painted like that?"	我们问他们，"你们想要这次行动 就是把建筑漆成这样子吗？"
And then the second question was, "Do you want it to stop or do you want it to continue?"	第二个问题是 "你们想让它停止还是让它继续？"
To the first question, 63 percent of people said yes, we like it.	第一个问题呢 63%的人说是，我们喜欢这样
Thirty-seven said no, we don't like it.	37%的人回答不，我们不喜欢这样
But to the second question, half of them that didn't like it, they wanted it to continue.	对第二个问题，说不喜欢这样的人当中有一半 希望这个行动能继续下去。
So we noticed change.	我们注意到了变化
People started to drop less litter in the streets, for example, started to pay taxes, started to feel something they had forgotten, and beauty was acting as a guardsman where municipal police, or the state itself, were missing.	譬如说，人们往街上扔垃圾的行为变少了 开始付税金 开始感觉到一度淡忘了的一些事 当城市警察，或说国家本身正在消亡的时候 美就充当了捍卫者
One day I remember walking along a street that had just been colored, and where we were in the process of planting trees, when I saw a shopkeeper and his wife putting a glass facade to their shop.	记得有一天我走在街上 那里刚被涂上颜色 树木也正在那里栽种 我看到一个店老板和他太太 在店里装一个玻璃门面
They had thrown the old shutter in the garbage collection place.	他们把旧的卷帘门 扔进垃圾回收处
"Why did you throw away the shutters?" I asked him.	我问他，"为什么把那些卷帘门扔掉呢？"
"Well, because the street is safer now," they answered.	他们回答道，"因为，这条街现在安全多了。"
"Safer? Why? They have posted more policemen here?"	"更安全了吗？是吗？他们派了更多的警察吧？"
"Come on, man! What policemen?	"我说，伙计，什么警察？
You can see it for yourself. There are colors, streetlights, new pavement with no potholes, trees. So it's beautiful; it's safe."	你自己看看。这些色彩， 街灯，新铺的没有坑坑洼洼的路面， 树木。又漂亮，又安全。"
And indeed, it was beauty that was giving people this feeling of being protected.	事实上，是美给了人们 被保护的感觉
And this was not a misplaced feeling.	这不是一种情感错位
Crime did fall.	犯罪率降低了
The freedom that was won in 1990 brought about a state of anarchy in the city, while the barbarism of the '90s brought about a loss of hope for the city.	1990年赢得的自由 带来了城市的无政府状态 90年代的野蛮 导致城市失去了希望
The paint on the walls did not feed children, nor did it tend the sick or educate the ignorant, but it gave hope and light, and helped to make people see there could be a different way of doing things, a different spirit, a different feel to our lives, and that if we brought the same energy and hope to our politics, we could build a better life for each other and for our country.	墙上的图画不能喂饱孩子们 也不会照顾病号或教育无知者 但是它带来了希望和光明 帮助人们看见 还有另外一种办法 另一种精神，另一种对生活的感受 如果我们能把这种同样的热情和希望 引入我们的政治，我们就能够 给我们和我们的国家一个更好的生活
We removed 123,000 tons of concrete only from the riverbanks.	单单从河边呀 我们就搬走了123，000吨的水泥
We demolished more than 5,000 illegal buildings all over the city, up to eight stories high, the tallest of them.	我们在整个城市拆毁了 5千多非法建筑 当中最高的有8层楼高
We planted 55,000 trees and bushes in the streets.	我们种植了5万5千棵树和灌木
We established a green tax, and then everybody accepted it and all businessmen paid it regularly.	我们设立了一项绿色税 每人都接受了 所有的生意人都定期纳税
By means of open competitions, we managed to recruit in our administration many young people, and we thus managed to build a de-politicized public institution where men and women were equally represented.	我们通过公开竞争 招募了我们的公务员 当中有许多年轻人 我们设法建立 一个去除政治化的公共机构 在这里男女被平等对待
International organizations have invested a lot in Albania during these 20 years, not all of it well spent.	国际组织 在这20年中在阿尔巴尼亚投了很多资金， 有些没有被利用好
When I told the World Bank directors that I wanted them to finance a project to build a model reception hall for citizens precisely in order to fight endemic daily corruption, they did not understand me.	当我告诉世界银行的董事们 我想让他们融资设立一个项目 为市民建立一个符合标准的接待厅 正是为了打击地方腐败 他们并不理解我
But people were waiting in long queues under sun and under rain in order to get a certificate or just a simple answer from two tiny windows of two metal kiosks.	但人们在烈日下风雨里 排长队等候 只为了从那两个金属亭上的两个小窗口里 拿到证明或区区一个答复
They were paying in order to skip the queue, the long queue.	他们为了不排长队 就得付钱
The reply to their requests was met by a voice coming from this dark hole, and, on the other hand, a mysterious hand coming out to take their documents while searching through old documents for the bribe.	他们得到的回答 就是来那个黑洞里 同时 一只神秘的手拿走他们的文件 一边在查旧文件就是为了捞点贿赂
We could change the invisible clerks within the kiosks, every week, but we could not change this corrupt practice.	我们可以每星期更换小亭子里隐藏的工作人员 但我们改变不了这种腐败的行为
"I'm convinced," I told a German official with the World Bank, "that it would be impossible for them to be bribed if they worked in Germany, in a German administration, just as I am convinced that if you put German officials from the German administration in those holes, they would be bribed just the same."	我告诉一位世界银行的德国官员， "我确信， 如果他们在德国工作 他们是不可能受贿的 在德国政府 正如我确信的，如果你把德国政府官员 放进那些小亭里 他们也会同样受贿。"
It's not about genes.	这不是基因的关系
It's not about some being with a high conscience and some others having not a conscience.	这不是说有些人有良知 而另一些没有良知
It's about system, it's about organization.	这是体制问题，是组织问题
It's also about environment and respect.	也是环境问题和尊重问题
We removed the kiosks.	我们撤掉了这些小亭子
We built the bright new reception hall that made people, Tirana citizens, think they had traveled abroad when they entered to make their requests.	建造了一个明亮的接待大厅 使人们，地拉那的公民们 感觉他们到了这里像是到了国外 去办他们的请求
We created an online system of control and so speeded up all the processes.	我们设立了一个在线控制系统 以加快流程
We put the citizen first, and not the clerks.	我们以公民优先，而不是公务员
The corruption in the state administration of countries like Albania -- it's not up to me to say also like Greece -- can be fought only by modernization.	这种腐败现象 在像阿尔吉尼亚这样的国家政府 或者希腊，这不该由我来说 可以用现代化的方式来解决
Reinventing the government by reinventing politics itself is the answer, and not reinventing people based on a ready-made formula that the developed world often tries in vain to impose to people like us.	通过重塑政治本身来重塑政府 这就是答案，而不是用一个现成的公式 来改造人民 就像发展中国家经常尝试强加于人民的那样 但徒劳无益
Things have come to this point because politicians in general, but especially in our countries, let's face it, think people are stupid.	（掌声) 事到如今 大部分政客们 尤其在我们国家，承认吧 他们认为民众很蠢。
They take it for granted that, come what may, people have to follow them, while politics, more and more, fails to offer answers for their public concerns or the exigencies of the common people.	他们理所当然认为，不管发生什么 民众必须跟从他们 政治越来越不能够为 公众关注的 或人们亟待解决的问题提供答案
Politics has come to resemble a cynical team game played by politicians, while the public has been pushed aside as if sitting on the seats of a stadium in which passion for politics is gradually making room for blindness and desperation.	政治也越来越像 一场由愤世嫉俗的政客们操弄的分组游戏 公众被放置一边 就像坐在球场的席位上 对政治的热情 逐渐被盲目和绝望取代
Seen from those stairs, all politicians today seem the same, and politics has come to resemble a sport that inspires more aggressiveness and pessimism than social cohesion and the desire for civic protaganism.	从这个角度来看 当今所有的政客们看上去是一样的 政治就类似于 一项激发更多进攻主义和厌世情绪的运动 而不是激发社会凝聚力 和对市民主权的欲望
Barack Obama won — — because he mobilized people as never before through the use of social networks.	巴拉克·奥巴马赢了 ---- 因为他通过使用社交媒体 来动员民众，这是前所未有的
He did not know each and every one of them, but with an admirable ingenuity, he managed to transform them into activists by giving them all the possibility to hold in their hands the arguments and the instruments that each would need to campaign in his name by making his own campaign.	他并不认识每一个人 但借助令人钦佩的独创性 他把他们变成行动派 让他们把任何可能为他赢得竞选的资源 握在手里 用他的名义为他奔走
I tweet. I love it.	我推特，我喜欢！
I love it because it lets me get the message out, but it also lets people get their messages to me.	我喜欢它因为它把我的信息传出去 但也得到人们的消息
This is politics, not from top down, but from the bottom up, and sideways, and allowing everybody's voice to be heard is exactly what we need.	这是政治，不是自上而下 而是自下而上地，甚至斜向地 允许每个人的声音都被听到 这就是我们所要的
Politics is not just about leaders.	政治不光是与领袖有关
It's not just about politicians and laws.	不只是政客和法律
It is about how people think, how they view the world around them, how they use their time and their energy.	它是关乎民众的想法 他们如何来看待周围的世界 如何利用他们的时间和能源
When people say all politicians are the same, ask yourself if Obama was the same as Bush, if François Hollande is the same as Sarkozy.	当人们讲政客都是一个样时 请扪心自问奥巴马和布什是否一样 弗朗索瓦·奥朗德和萨科齐是否一样
They are not. They are human beings with different views and different visions for the world.	他们不一样。他们观点不同 世界观也不同
When people say nothing can change, just stop and think what the world was like 10, 20, 50, 100 years ago.	当人们说什么都不会改变时 只要停下来想一想 10年前，20年前，50年前，100年前这个世界是什么样子
Our world is defined by the pace of change.	我们的世界是根据变化来定义的
We can all change the world.	我们都能够改变世界
I gave you a very small example of how one thing, the use of color, can make change happen.	我给了你们一个小例子 一个如何通过颜色 来产生变化的例子
I want to make more change as Prime Minister of my country, but every single one of you can make change happen if you want to.	作为我们国家总理 我想做更多改变 但是如果你想做 你们每个人都会让改变发生
President Roosevelt, he said, "Believe you can, and you are halfway there."	罗斯福总统说过， "相信你可以，你就成功了一半。"
Efharisto and kalinihta.	谢谢，晚安
	(掌声）
For emotions, we should not move quickly to the desert.	从感情上，我们最好不要很快地转移到沙漠上。
So, first, a small housekeeping announcement: please switch off your proper English check programs installed in your brain.	所以首先我发布一个小小的管家告示： 请关掉您 大脑里安装的传统意义上的 英文检测程序。
So, welcome to the Golden Desert, Indian desert.	那么下面，欢迎你们来到金色的印度沙漠。
It receives the least rainfall in the country, lowest rainfall.	这里只能获得这个国度里最低的降雨量。 最低的降雨量。
If you are well-versed with inches, nine inches, centimeters, 16 [centimeters].	如果你习惯于使用英尺单位，9英尺， 厘米，16英尺。
The groundwater is 300 feet deep, 100 meters.	地下水有300英尺深，相当于100米深。
And in most parts it is saline, not fit for drinking.	并且绝大多数是盐湖，不适合饮用。
So, you can't install hand pumps or dig wells, though there is no electricity in most of the villages.	所以，尽管这里大多数的村子里没有电力供应， 你同样不能安装手压泵或是打井以解决他们的饮水问题。
But suppose you use the green technology, solar pumps -- they are of no use in this area.	然而设想你使用绿色环保技术，太阳能抽水泵— 在这块土地上他们一样没有任何作用。
So, welcome to the Golden Desert.	欢迎大家来到金色的沙漠。
Clouds seldom visit this area.	云朵很少光临这里。
But we find 40 different names of clouds in this dialect used here.	但是我们却在这里找到四十种不同的方言来命名它。
There are a number of techniques to harvest rain.	这里有许多用来接收雨水的技术。
This is a new work, it's a new program.	这是一项新兴事业，一个新的程序。
But for the desert society this is no program; this is their life.	然而对于沙漠社会 这里没有程序可言；这是他们的生活方式。
And they harvest rain in many ways.	并且他们通过很多途径获得雨水。
So, this is the first device they use in harvesting rain.	看这里，这是他们使用过的第一个 用于接收雨水的装置。
It's called kunds; somewhere it is called [unclear].	被称作"kunds"；有些地方称它为[印度语]
And you can notice they have created a kind of false catchment.	你们可以注意到他们已经创造出 一种不实际的集水池。
The desert is there, sand dunes, some small field.	沙漠在那里，沙丘，一些小块儿的区域。
And this is all big raised platform.	这是一个高高凸起的平台，
You can notice the small holes the water will fall on this catchment, and there is a slope.	你们可以看到一些小孔， 使得雨水从这里流向这个集水池， 这里还有一个斜坡。
Sometimes our engineers and architects do not care about slopes in bathrooms, but here they will care properly.	虽然有时我们的工程师和建筑设计师 并不那么关心我们浴室里的斜坡， 但在这里，他们将适当地关注这些斜坡。
And the water will go where it should go.	以及雨水应该流向什么地方。
And then it is 40 feet deep.	于是它有40英尺深。
The waterproofing is done perfectly, better than our city contractors, because not a single drop should go waste in this.	他的防水层处理得无懈可击。 建造水平好过我们城市里的建筑承包商， 因为在这里哪怕是一滴水都不应该被浪费。
They collect 100 thousand liters in one season.	他们在一个季节里收集近十万升的雨水。
And this is pure drinking water.	这是仅供饮用的水。
Below the surface there is hard saline water.	地表以下是咸咸的硬水。
But now you can have this for year round.	而如今在大约一年的时间里，你可以持续拥有这些饮用水。
It's two houses.	这里有两个房子。
We often use a term called bylaws.	我们经常用到一个专业术语叫做次要法规。
Because we are used to get written things.	因为我们曾经获得过书面文件，
But here it is unwritten by law.	但并未立法。
And people made their house, and the water storage tanks.	人们建造自己的房子 和储水槽。
These raised up platforms just like this stage.	这些凸起的平台就像这个舞台。
In fact they go 15 feet deep, and collect rain water from roof, there is a small pipe, and from their courtyard.	事实上他们有15英尺深， 收集来自屋顶的雨水， 这里有一个小小的管道，来自他们的院子里。
It can also harvest something like 25,000 in a good monsoon.	如果赶上一个多雨的雨季它可以收集大约25000.
Another big one, this is of course out of the hardcore desert area.	另一个大一些的， 当然它没有坐落在沙漠的中心。
This is near Jaipur. This is called the Jaigarh Fort.	这里临近斋浦尔。这里被叫做斋格尔古堡。
And it can collect six million gallons of rainwater in one season.	它可以在一个季度里收集六百万加仑的雨水。
The age is 400 years.	已经有400年的历史。
So, since 400 years it has been giving you almost six million gallons of water per season.	所以在这400年里每个季度它都为你供应 近六百万加仑的水量。
You can calculate the price of that water.	你可以估算出那些水的价格。
It draws water from 15 kilometers of canals.	它通过15公里长的管道系统收集雨水。
You can see a modern road, hardly 50 years old.	你可能会看到一条现代的公路，有时几乎不到50年，
It can break sometimes.	就会出现断裂破损。
But this 400 year old canal, which draws water, it is maintained for so many generations.	但是这已经使用了400年的用来集水的陈旧管道， 却被好几代人一直维护着。
Of course if you want to go inside, the two doors are locked.	当然如果你想进去，有两个门是锁着的。
But they can be opened for TED people.	但是它们会为TED人敞开的。
And we request them.	我们请求他们的允许。
You can see person coming up with two canisters of water.	你看到的这个人提着 两桶水。
And the water level -- these are not empty canisters -- water level is right up to this.	可以看到桶内水平面--这些可不是空桶-- 水面一直到这里。
It can envy many municipalities, the color, the taste, the purity of this water.	它可以遭到许多其他自治区的垂涎， 它的颜色，它的味道，以及它的纯洁。
And this is what they call Zero B type of water, because it comes from the clouds, pure distilled water.	这就是被他们称作Zero B的纯净水， 因为这些水来自于云层， 是纯正的蒸馏水。
We stop for a quick commercial break, and then we come back to the traditional systems.	让我们为一个短暂的商业断开稍停片刻， 然后我们要回到传统的输水系统。
The government thought that this is a very backward area and we should bring a multi-million dollar project to bring water from the Himalayas.	政府认为这里是一个非常 落后的区域，应该不惜斥资 数百万建立 喜马拉雅山水源引入的项目。
That's why I said that this is a commercial break.	那就是为什么我刚刚说这是一个"商业断开"。
But we will come back, once again, to the traditional thing.	但是我们将要再次回到 这个传统的引水系统。
So, water from 300, 400 kilometers away, soon it become like this.	于是，从三四百公里外引水于此， 不久就变成了这样。
In many portions, water hyacinth covered these big canals like anything.	在许多部分，水风信子 拼命地蔓延着这些巨大的引水河道。
Of course there are some areas where water is reaching, I'm not saying that it is not reaching at all.	当然，这里有一些地区确实接收到了通过引水管道来自喜马拉雅山的水， 我并没有说它完全无效。
But the tail end, the Jaisalmer area, you will notice in Bikaner things like this: where the water hyacinth couldn't grow, the sand is flowing in these canals.	但是在它的末端，斋沙默尔地区， 你将会注意到在比卡内尔发生的事情就像这样： 哪里水风信子不能生长， 哪里就会有沙子流入管道。
The bonus is that you can find wildlife around it.	值得庆幸的是，你可以在其周围找到围绕着它的野生物种。
We had full-page advertisements, some 30 years, 25 years ago when this canal came.	我们有大量整幅的广告， 几十年前，当这些管道建成时，
They said that throw away your traditional systems, these new cement tanks will supply you piped water.	让人们抛弃以往传统的储水系统， 宣称这些新建的水泥槽子可以为人们提供管道水，
It's a dream. And it became a dream also.	那是每一个人的梦想。然而它真的变成了一个梦。
Because soon the water was not able to reach these areas.	因为随后的日子里引水不能到达这些地方，
And people started renovating their own structures.	人们开始重新修建他们自己传统的储水设备。
These are all traditional water structures, which we won't be able to explain in such a short time.	这些全部是传统的蓄水设备， 因为时间的原因我不能在此做更进一步的解释。
But you can see that no woman is standing on those.	但是你可以看到那个女人正站在上面。
And they are plaiting hair.	她们正在编辫子。
Jaisalmer. This is heart of desert.	斋沙默尔，这里是沙漠的中心，
This town was established 800 years ago.	这个城镇被建立于800年前。
I'm not sure by that time Bombay was there, or Delhi was there, or Chennai was there, or Bangalore was there.	我不是很确定在那个时候 孟买是不是在那里，德里是不是在那里， 金奈是不是在那里，班加罗尔又是不是在那里。
So, this was the terminal point for silk route.	所以这里是丝绸之路的终点。
Well connected, 800 years ago, through Europe.	有优越的社会关系，800年以前，通往欧洲。
None of us were able to go to Europe, but Jaisalmer was well connected to it.	我们没有人可以到达欧洲， 但是斋沙默尔却一直与那里保持着很好的联系，
And this is the 16 centimeter area.	这就是只有16厘米降雨量的地方。
Such a limited rainfall, and highest colorful life flourished in these areas.	降雨量如此有限的地区 却繁荣着最多姿多彩的生活。
You won't find water in this slide.	虽然你在这个幻灯片里看不到水，
But it is invisible.	但它是暗藏的。
Somewhere a stream or a rivulet is running through here.	某处的小河或小溪 会流经于此。
Or, if you want to paint, you can paint it blue throughout because every roof which you see in this picture collects rainwater drops and deposit in the rooms.	或许，如果你想作画，你可以把这里画成蓝色， 因为在这张图片里你看到的每一个屋顶 都是用来收集雨水的， 并把这些雨水引入屋里储存起来。
But apart from this system, they designed 52 beautiful water bodies around this town.	但是除了这个系统， 他们还围绕着这个城镇设计了52个美丽的储水池。
And what we call private public partnership you can add estate also.	这就是我们所说的公私合作公司， 你也可以加入你的土地。
So, estate, public and private entrepreneurs work together to build this beautiful water body.	所以，土地、公有的和个人的公司 一起为建设这样美丽的贮水池而合力工作。
And it's a kind of water body for all seasons.	它是一种适合任何季节的贮水池。
You will admire it. Just behold the beauty throughout the year.	你将会赞美它，哪怕只是终年地注视着它的美丽。
Whether water level goes up or down, the beauty is there throughout.	无论水位升起或回落， 它的美丽是自始至终存在的。
Another water body, dried up, of course, during the summer period, but you can see how the traditional society combines engineering with aesthetics, with the heart.	另一个贮水池，干涸了，当然 是在夏季里。 但你可以看到古代社会是如何 用心地将工程学与美学结合在一起。
These statues, marvelous statues, gives you an idea of water table.	这些雕像，这些令人惊异的雕像， 为你提供着地下水位的信息。
When this rain comes and the water starts filling this tank, it will submerge these beautiful statues in what we call in English today "mass communication."	当雨季来临，雨水开始填满这个槽子， 它将掩盖住这些美丽的雕像， 如同我们今天常说的"大众传媒工具"。
This was for mass communication.	这就是为了达到大众传媒的目的。
Everybody in the town will know that this elephant has drowned, so water will be there for seven months or nine months, or 12 months.	当人们看到大象被淹没时，每个人都可以根据大象被淹没的位置 判断出储水量可以供应7个月，9个月 或者12个月。
And then they will come and worship this pond, pay respect, their gratitude.	然后他们会来到这个池子前做礼拜， 瞻仰并感恩。
Another small water body, called the [unclear].	另一个小贮水池叫做[印度语]，
It is difficult to translate in English, especially in my English.	很难将它翻译成英文， 特别是以我的英语水平。
But the nearest would be "glory," a reputation.	但是最贴切的词语应该是"荣誉"，一个名誉。
The reputation in desert of this small water body is that it never dries up.	这个小小的贮水池在沙漠中的名气源于 它从未干涸过。
In severe drought periods nobody has seen this water body getting dried up.	即使在严重干旱的时期， 也没有人见到过它 曾经干涸。
And perhaps they knew the future also.	或许他们早知道将来也会是这样。
It was designed some 150 years ago.	这个贮水池已有150多年的历史。
But perhaps they knew that on sixth, November, 2009, there will be a TED green and blue session, so they painted it like this.	又或许他们早已预知在2009年11月6日 这里会有一个蓝绿色的TED演讲， 所以他们把它画成了这个样子。
Dry water body. Children are standing on a very difficult device to explain.	这是一口干涸的贮水池。孩子们正站在 一个很难解释的设备上。
This is called kund. We have, in English, surface water and ground water.	这个叫做kund。在英语里我们有地表水和地下水。
But this is not ground water.	但是它不是地下水。
You can draw ground water from any well.	你可以通过任何一口井来汲取地下水，
But this is no ordinary well.	但是这里没有普通的井。
It squeeze the moisture hidden in the sand.	它榨取的是沙子里 暗藏的水分。
And they have dubbed this water as the third one called [unclear].	他们把这种水称作[印度语]。
And there is a gypsum belt running below it.	在它的下面有一条带状的石膏物质汲取着水分，
And it was deposited by the great mother Earth, some three million years ago.	它是大自然的产物， 大约在三百万年前就开始形成了，
And where we have this gypsum strip they can harvest this water.	哪里有这种石膏样的物质， 他们就可以从哪里获得水分。
This is the same dry water body.	这也是一个干涸的贮水池，
Now, you don't find any kund; they are all submerged.	现在，你找不到那些kund； 他们全部被水淹没了。
But when the water goes down they will be able to draw water from those structures throughout the year.	但是当水位下降时， 他们又开始通过那些复杂的结构全年不间断地汲取水分。
This year they have received only six centimeters.	今年他们只收到了六厘米，
Six centimeter of rainfall, and they can telephone you that if you find any water problem in your city, Delhi, Bombay, Bangalore, Mysore, please come to our area of six centimeters, we can give you water.	六厘米的降雨量， 他们会给你打电话 如果你在你的城市， 德里，孟买，班加罗尔，或者迈索尔遇到了用水的困难， 邀请你到我们这个六厘米降雨量的地区，告诉你我们将为你提供水资源。
How they maintain them?	人们是怎么维护他们的？
There are three things: concept, planning, making the actual thing, and also maintaining them.	这里有三要素原则："观念，规划，实事求是" 并且要坚守原则。
It is a structure for maintain, for centuries, by generations, without any department, without any funding, So the secret is "[unclear]," respect.	它是一个维护准则， 代代相传使用了几个世纪，没有任何政府部门负责管理， 没有获得过任何拨款， 所以它的秘诀就是"印度语"，尊重。
Your own thing, not personal property, my property, every time.	你们自己的东西，不是私人财产， 我的财产，任何时候。
So, these stone pillars will remind you that you are entering into a water body area.	所以，这些石柱 将提醒你已经进入了一个贮水池的内部。
Don't spit, don't do anything wrong, so that the clean water can be collected.	不要吐痰，不要做任何不该做的事情， 以致这些干净的水能够被收集起来。
Another pillar, stone pillar on your right side.	另一个柱子，在你右侧的石柱。
If you climb these three, six steps you will find something very nice.	如果你向上攀登三、六个台阶， 你将会发现一些很美妙的东西。
This was done in 11th century.	这里被建于11世纪。
And you have to go further down.	你必须继续向下走。
They say that a picture is worth a thousand words, so we can say a thousand words right now, an another thousand words.	有人说用千言万语都不足以描绘一幅图画， 所以此刻我们可以说上一千个词语， 又是一千个词语。
If the water table goes down, you will find new stairs.	如果水位下降， 你将会发现新的台阶。
If it comes up, some of them will be submerged.	当水位上升时，其中的某些部分则将被淹没。
So, throughout the year this beautiful system will give you some pleasure.	所以，在全年里 这个美丽的体系将周而复始的为你带来不尽的快乐。
Three sides, such steps, on the fourth side there is a four-story building where you can organize such TED conferences anytime.	贮水池的三面全部由这些台阶构成，在它的第四面 有一个四层楼的建筑， 你们可以随时在那里组织TED的会议。
Excuse me, who built these structures?	抱歉，请问是谁建造的这些建筑物？
They are in front of you.	他们就呈现在你们眼前。
The best civil engineers we had, the best planners, the best architects.	我们最好的土木工程师，最棒的策划人， 最有天赋的建筑设计师。
We can say that because of them, because of their forefathers, India could get the first engineering college in 1847.	我们可以说正是因为他们， 因为他们这些先人， 印度才可以在1847年 拥有了自己第一个工学院。
There were no English medium schools at that time, even no Hindi schools, [unclear] schools.	在那个时候，这里没有英语授课学校， 甚至没有北印度语学校，[印度语]学校。
But such people, compelled to the East India Company, which came here for business, a very dirty kind of business ...	但是很多人迫使东印度公司 为了做生意来到这里，一种非常肮脏的交易…
but not to create the engineering colleges.	而并不是创建工学院，
But because of them, first engineering college was created in a small village, not in the town.	但正是因为他们，第一个工学院的创建不是在城里， 而是在一个小乡村。
The last point, we all know in our primary schools that that camel is a ship of desert.	最后一点，我们都知道在小学的课本上写着 骆驼是"沙漠之舟"。
So, you can find through your Jeep, a camel, and a cart.	所以你可以通过你的吉普找到 一只骆驼，一个手推车。
This tire comes from the airplane.	这个轮胎原本是一个飞机部件。
So, look at the beauty from the desert society who can harvest rainwater, and also create something through a tire from a jet plane, and used in a camel cart.	所以，看这些沙漠社会里 可以获得雨水的美妙东西， 从一个喷气式飞机废弃轮胎 被骆驼手推车再次利用， 我们还可以看到这个沙漠社会的创造力。
Last picture, it's a tattoo, 2,000-years-old tattoo.	最后一个图片，是一个刺青， 2000年前的刺青。
They were using it on their body.	过去被用在人们的身体上。
Tattoo was, at one time, a kind of a blacklisted or con thing, but now it is in thing.	刺青曾经一度是 一种被列入黑名单的 或者是欺骗事物的象征。但如今它是流行文化。
You can copy this tattoo. I have some posters of this.	你可以复制这个刺青图案。我有一些它的大幅海报。
The center of life is water.	生活的中心是水。
These are the beautiful waves.	这些是美丽的波纹。
These are the beautiful stairs which we just saw in one of the slides.	这些是我们刚刚 在一张幻灯片上见到过的美丽的台阶。
These are the trees.	这些是树。
And these are the flowers which add fragrance to our lives.	还有这些带给 我们生活芬芳的花朵。
So, this is the message of desert.	所以这就是沙漠的主题思想。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
So, first of all, I wish I had your eloquence, truly, in any language.	克里斯•安德森: 首先，我真诚地希望拥有您超凡的口才，无论是用哪种语言。
These artifacts and designs are inspiring.	这些人工制造的物品和设计非常地鼓舞人心。
Do you believe that they can be used elsewhere, that the world can learn from this?	您是否相信他们可以被世界其他地方 学习并得以利用？
Or is this just right for this place?	或者它只适合这个地方？
Anupam Mishra: No, the basic idea is to utilize water that falls on our area.	阿努帕姆•密斯拉：不，根本的想法是 充分利用本地区的降雨资源。
So, the ponds, the open bodies, are everywhere, right from Sri Lanka to Kashmir, and in other parts also.	所以，那些池塘，开放的水池在每一个地方， 从斯里兰卡到克什米尔地区都适合，甚至其他地区也同样适用。
And these [unclear], which stored water, there are two type of things.	还有这些用来储存水的[印度语], 他们包括两大类，
One recharge, and one stores.	一类是可再充水的，另一类则是仅用来储存的。
So, it depends on the terrain.	所以选择哪一类取决于当地的地形及地质结构。
But kund, which uses the gypsum belt, for that you have to go back to your calendar, three million years ago.	但对于通过石膏带汲水的"kund"， 你必须让时间倒转， 回到三百万年前，
If it is there it can be done right now.	如果那个时候它存在，你现在就可以马上使用它了。
Otherwise, it can't be done.	否则，它肯定不能使用。
Thank you so much.	克里斯•安德森: 非常感谢。
Can I ask you to please recall a time when you really loved something -- a movie, an album, a song or a book -- and you recommended it wholeheartedly to someone you also really liked, and you anticipated that reaction, you waited for it, and it came back, and the person hated it?	我想请你回忆过去， 当你真的热爱过一些东西， 一部电影，一张专辑，一首歌曲或一本书， 并且你全心全意地推荐它 给你很喜欢的某个人， 你期望他的反应，你一直等待着， 但反馈回来的却是他很讨厌它。
So, by way of introduction, that is the exact same state in which I spent every working day of the last six years.	因此，以这种方式介绍， 在这种完全相同的状态下， 我度过了在过去六年工作中的每一天。
I teach high school math.	我教授高中数学。
I sell a product to a market that doesn't want it, but is forced by law to buy it.	我是将一种产品卖到一个 不受欢迎的市场，但是依据法律强制购买它。
I mean, it's just a losing proposition.	我的意思是，这是一种 - 它只是一个亏本生意。
So there's a useful stereotype about students that I see, a useful stereotype about you all.	因此，关于学数学的学生和你们所有人，我看到一个很形象的 刻板印象。
I could give you guys an algebra-two final exam, and I would expect no higher than a 25 percent pass rate.	我可以给你们 一个代数Ⅱ的期末考试， 我不会期望 超过百分之25的合格率。
And both of these facts say less about you or my students than they do about what we call math education in the U.S. today.	这两个事实并不表示你们的问题或是我学生的问题， 它表现的是在当今的美国，我们所谓的数学教育 所面临的问题。
To start with, I'd like to break math down into two categories.	首先，我想把数学分成两类。
One is computation; this is the stuff you've forgotten.	一个是计算。这是你们已经忘记的东西。
For example, factoring quadratics with leading coefficients greater than one.	例如，首项系数大于1的 保理二次方程式。
This stuff is also really easy to relearn, provided you have a really strong grounding in reasoning. Math reasoning -- we'll call it the application of math processes to the world around us -- this is hard to teach.	这东西也很容易重新学习， 只要你有一个关于推理，数学推理真正过硬 的基础。 我们将这称之为 我们周围世界里的数学程序应用。 这点是很难教授的。
This is what we would love students to retain, even if they don't go into mathematical fields.	这也是我们希望学生能够掌握并应用， 即使他们不进入数学领域。
This is also something that, the way we teach it in the U.S.	这也是在美国，由于我们教授它的方式
all but ensures they won't retain it.	以致于学生不会应用它。
So, I'd like to talk about why that is, why that's such a calamity for society, what we can do about it and, to close with, why this is an amazing time to be a math teacher.	所以，我要谈谈这是为什么， 为什么这是当今社会的灾难，我们可以为此做什么， 而且，更进一步，为什么现在成为一名数学老师， 这正是一个千载难逢的好时代。
So first, five symptoms that you're doing math reasoning wrong in your classroom.	首先，你在数学课堂上 做的五个征兆 是在数学推理上错误的。
One is a lack of initiative; your students don't self-start.	一个是缺乏主动性，你的学生没有自我行动。
You finish your lecture block and immediately you have five hands going up asking you to re-explain the entire thing at their desks.	你完成你的演讲， 然后马上，你就会看到五个人举手 要求你到他们课桌前重新解释整件事。
Students lack perseverance.	二学生缺乏坚持不懈。
They lack retention; you find yourself re-explaining concepts three months later, wholesale.	三他们缺少持续记忆力，你会发现自己 在3个月后需要完完全全的重新解释这些概念。
There's an aversion to word problems, which describes 99 percent of my students.	四还存在着一种对文字题的反感， 这占了我学生中的99%。
And then the other one percent is eagerly looking for the formula to apply in that situation.	五这种情况下，剩下的百分之一 正在急切地寻找公式 来解决问题。
This is really destructive.	这实在是毁灭性的。
David Milch, creator of "Deadwood" and other amazing TV shows, has a really good description for this.	大卫·米尔希是"死木"美剧以及其他的精彩电视节目的创造者， 对此他有一个很好的描述。
He swore off creating contemporary drama, shows set in the present day, because he saw that when people fill their mind with four hours a day of, for example, "Two and a Half Men," no disrespect, it shapes the neural pathways, he said, in such a way that they expect simple problems.	他发誓要停止创造 当代戏剧， 及当今的单元连续剧， 因为他意识到，当人们的脑中 一天四小时想到，例如，"两个半男人"，没有冒犯的意思， 这就形成了神经传导通路，他说， 以这样一种方式，人们期望简单的问题。
He called it, "an impatience with irresolution."	他称这是"一种无法做决定的焦虑。"
You're impatient with things that don't resolve quickly.	人们对不能快速解决的事情不耐烦。
You expect sitcom-sized problems that wrap up in 22 minutes, three commercial breaks and a laugh track.	人们期望情景喜剧一般可以在22分中结束， 3个广告中断和一个笑声背景。
And I'll put it to all of you, what you already know, that no problem worth solving is that simple.	我告诉你们所有人， 如大家知道的，解决任何问题都不是那样简单。
I am very concerned about this because I'm going to retire in a world that my students will run.	我对此很担忧， 因为我将要在我的学生主宰的世界中退休。
I'm doing bad things to my own future and well-being when I teach this way.	当我以这种方式教学，我正在做 对我自己的将来和幸福感 不利的事情。
I'm here to tell you that the way our textbooks -- particularly mass-adopted textbooks -- teach math reasoning and patient problem solving, it's functionally equivalent to turning on "Two and a Half Men" and calling it a day.	我在这里告诉大家，我们的教科书，特别是 大众常用的教科书，它们教授数学理论 和耐心解决的数学问题， 功能上和打开"好汉两个半"电视系列剧一样，然后这就结束了。
In all seriousness. Here's an example from a physics textbook.	非常严肃地说，这是物理教科书上的一个例子，
It applies equally to math.	它同样适用于数学。
Notice, first of all here, that you have exactly three pieces of information there, each of which will figure into a formula somewhere, eventually, which the student will then compute.	首先注意到这里 大家有正好3个信息， 每一个都可以表示成某个公式， 最终， 学生可以以此计算。
I believe in real life.	我相信在真实生活中。
And ask yourself, what problem have you solved, ever, that was worth solving where you knew all of the given information in advance; where you didn't have a surplus of information and you had to filter it out, or you didn't have sufficient information and had to go find some.	问问自己，什么问题你们解决过的， 值得解决的， 在此问题中，你提前知道所有信息， 或者你没有多余信息，然后你需要过滤信息， 或是你没有足够的信息， 你需要去查找些信息。
I'm sure we all agree that no problem worth solving is like that.	我肯定大家都同意解决问题都不是如上所述那么简单。
And the textbook, I think, knows how it's hamstringing students because, watch this, this is the practice problem set.	我认为，教科书实在是误人子弟。 因为，看看这个，这是一个练习题，
When it comes time to do the actual problem set, we have problems like this right here where we're just swapping out numbers and tweaking the context a little bit.	当要解决实际问题时， 我们在这就有类似问题， 我们只是在交换数字和稍稍调整内容。
And if the student still doesn't recognize the stamp this was molded from, it helpfully explains to you what sample problem you can return to to find the formula.	如果学生们不知道这类数学题模式， 而它会帮助向你解释例题， 什么样题你可以返回去找出公式。
You could literally, I mean this, pass this particular unit without knowing any physics, just knowing how to decode a textbook. That's a shame.	你确实可以，我很认真的说， 通过这个测试，没有任何物理知识， 仅仅知道如何解译教科书。那是一种耻辱。
So I can diagnose the problem a little more specifically in math.	我能在数学中更准确得解决这个问题。
Here's a really cool problem. I like this.	这是一个很酷的问题。我喜欢这个。
It's about defining steepness and slope using a ski lift.	它是关于确定陡度和坡度 在一个滑雪缆车上.
But what you have here is actually four separate layers, and I'm curious which of you can see the four separate layers and, particularly, how when they're compressed together and presented to the student all at once, how that creates this impatient problem solving.	但在这里有四个不同层面。 我很好奇你们哪个可以看到这四个不同层面的， 特别是，它们如何压缩在一起， 一次性的展现给学生， 又如何轻易地解决了问题。
I'll define them here: You have the visual.	我将在这里详细说明它们。你有图像。
You also have the mathematical structure, talking about grids, measurements, labels, points, axes, that sort of thing.	你也有数学结构， 谈到格子，测量，标注， 点，轴，诸如此类。
You have substeps, which all lead to what we really want to talk about: which section is the steepest.	你有子步骤，它们都引到我们真正想谈论的问题， 哪段是最陡的？
So I hope you can see.	我希望你们能看到。
I really hope you can see how what we're doing here is taking a compelling question, a compelling answer, but we're paving a smooth, straight path from one to the other and congratulating our students for how well they can step over the small cracks in the way.	我真的希望你们能看到，我们在这里 是在谈一个激发兴趣的问题，一个有意思的答案， 但我们在开拓一个平整的，简单明了的路径， 从一点到另一点， 然后祝贺我们的学生，为他们 能够很好的沿路踏过小缝隙。
That's all we're doing here.	这就是我们做的。
So I want to put to you that if we can separate these in a different way and build them up with students, we can have everything we're looking for in terms of patient problem solving.	所以我想展示给你们的是，如果我们能以不同方式分开这些， 和学生们一起建造它们， 我们可以迎刃处理所有需耐心解决的问题。
So right here I start with the visual, and I immediately ask the question: Which section is the steepest?	就在这里，我以图像开始， 我马上问个问题： 哪个部分最陡？
And this starts conversation because the visual is created in such a way where you can defend two answers.	这会引起交谈， 因为这个图像创造的方式使你可以用两个答案辩解。
So you get people arguing against each other, friend versus friend, in pairs, journaling, whatever.	这样你可以促进人们互相争论， 朋友对朋友的争论， 一对对，日志式，随便怎样。
And then eventually we realize it's getting annoying to talk about the skier in the lower left-hand side of the screen or the skier just above the mid line.	然后我们最终认识到 谈到 在屏幕左手边滑雪的人 或是刚上中线的滑雪的人，这是挺讨厌的。
And we realize how great would it be if we just had some A, B, C and D labels to talk about them more easily.	我们认识到如果 我们更简单地谈论带有一些a,b,c,d的标志， 这该是多么好。
And then as we start to define what does steepness mean, we realize it would be nice to have some measurements to really narrow it down, specifically what that means.	然后我们确定陡峭程度是指什么， 我们认识到这是一个好主意，如果有一些测量 来真的缩小范围，特别是那意味着什么。
And then and only then, we throw down that mathematical structure.	然后，在此之后， 我们放下那个数学架构。
The math serves the conversation, the conversation doesn't serve the math.	数学服务于对话， 对话却不为数学服务。
And at that point, I'll put it to you that nine out of 10 classes are good to go on the whole slope, steepness thing.	在这一点，我将展示给你们，10个班里有9个班 能很好的继续解决整个坡度，陡度的问题。
But if you need to, your students can then develop those substeps together.	如果你需要 你的学生可以在一起展开那些子步骤。
Do you guys see how this, right here, compared to that -- which one creates that patient problem solving, that math reasoning?	你们可以比较这边这个和那个－－ 哪个班处理了耐心解决的问题，以及数学推理呢？
It's been obvious in my practice, to me.	在我的实践中，我一目了然。
And I'll yield the floor here for a second to Einstein, who, I believe, has paid his dues.	我这就要谈谈爱因斯坦， 我认为他做了应有的贡献。
He talked about the formulation of a problem being so incredibly important, and yet in my practice, in the U.S. here, we just give problems to students; we don't involve them in the formulation of the problem.	他谈到规划问题的能力是如此重要， 但在我的实践中， 在美国这儿， 我们仅仅把问题交给学生； 我们不把他们参与到问题的形成和规划过程中。
So 90 percent of what I do with my five hours of prep time per week is to take fairly compelling elements of problems like this from my textbook and rebuild them in a way that supports math reasoning and patient problem solving.	所以我做的90％的事 和我每周5小时的准备时间 是拿问题中非常吸引人的元素， 像在我的教科书里的这些问题， 把它们重组成能支持数学推理和耐心解决问题的方法。
And here's how it works.	这里是它如何运作的。
I like this question. It's about a water tank.	我喜欢这个问题，这是关于一个水桶。
The question is: How long will it take you to fill it up?	问题是：多长时间可以装满这个水桶呢？
First things first, we eliminate all the substeps.	第一件事，我们简化子步骤。
Students have to develop those, they have to formulate those.	学生们必须得展开这些子步骤， 用公式化表达它们。
And then notice that all the information written on there is stuff you'll need.	然后认识到写在那里的东西是他们所需要的所有信息。
None of it's a distractor, so we lose that.	没有一个是多余信息，用不着删除。
Students need to decide, "All right, well, does the height matter? Does the side of it matter?	学生们需要决定，好了， 高度重要吗？它的尺码重要吗？
Does the color of the valve matter? What matters here?"	开关的颜色重要吗？这里什么是重要的？
Such an underrepresented question in math curriculum.	这在数学课里是不具代表性的问题。
So now we have a water tank.	这样在这里我们有了一个水桶。
How long will it take you to fill it up? And that's it.	多长时间会把它装满，就是这样。
And because this is the 21st century and we would love to talk about the real world on its own terms, not in terms of line art or clip art that you so often see in textbooks, we go out and we take a picture of it.	因为这是21世纪， 我们喜欢以真实世界的表达方式来谈论真实的世界， 不是以你常在教科书上看到的线条艺术 或是插图艺术来表达。 我们出去应用，并给它照个相。
So now we have the real deal.	现在我们有了真实的东西。
How long will it take it to fill it up?	它要多长时间装满？
And then even better is we take a video, a video of someone filling it up.	更好的，我们录像， 一个人在装满它的录像。
And it's filling up slowly, agonizingly slowly.	它在慢慢的装满，令人不耐烦的等待。
It's tedious.	这很乏味。
Students are looking at their watches, rolling their eyes, and they're all wondering at some point or another, "Man, how long is it going to take to fill up?"	学生们在看他们的表，翻白眼， 他们时不时地想， "伙计，这个要多长时间装满呐？"
That's how you know you've baited the hook, right?	这就是你想要引起关注的地方，好。
And that question, off this right here, is really fun for me because, like the intro, I teach kids -- because of my inexperience -- I teach the kids that are the most remedial, all right?	这个问题，就在这里，对我来说很有趣。 因为，像个引言， 我教小孩子，因为我的经验， 我教那些需要辅导的孩子。
And I've got kids who will not join a conversation about math because someone else has the formula; someone else knows how to work the formula better than me, so I won't talk about it.	我不教那些不参与数学对话的孩子， 因为他们懂公式， 也知道如何更好地运用公式，甚至比我好。 所以我不讨论这个。
But here, every student is on a level playing field of intuition.	但在这里，每个人都在同一个水平上运用直觉。
Everyone's filled something up with water before, so I get kids answering the question, "How long will it take?"	每个人都装过水， 所以我让孩子们自己回答这个问题：多长时间装满水。
I've got kids who are mathematically and conversationally intimidated joining the conversation.	我让这些在数学上和交谈上感到恐惧的孩子们 也加入谈论。
We put names on the board, attach them to guesses, and kids have bought in here.	我们把名字写到黑板上，把它们连到猜测的答案上， 孩子们把答案带到这里。
And then we follow the process I've described.	然后孩子们遵照我描述的过程。
And the best part here, or one of the better parts is that we don't get our answer from the answer key in the back of the teacher's edition.	最好的部分，或者说，一个更好的部分 是我们没有从 教师版教科书的后面得到答案。
We, instead, just watch the end of the movie.	我们却看到了录像的结尾。
And that's terrifying, because the theoretical models that always work out in the answer key in the back of a teacher's edition, that's great, but it's scary to talk about sources of error when the theoretical does not match up with the practical.	这很有意思，对吧。 因为理论模型总是得出 和教师版后面的答案一样的答案， 这很好， 但谈到错误的来源， 当理论不符合实际的时候，就让人害怕。
But those conversations have been so valuable, among the most valuable.	但那些谈论是如此珍贵， 是最有价值的。
So I'm here to report some really fun games with students who come pre-installed with these viruses day one of the class.	所以我在这里报导一些很有趣的收获， 关于在数学课程刚开始的时候，学生带有这些预置的 错误征兆。
These are the kids who now, one semester in, I can put something on the board, totally new, totally foreign, and they'll have a conversation about it for three or four minutes more than they would have at the start of the year, which is just so fun.	这些孩子现在已经学了一个学期， 我能在黑板上写下一些 全新的，完全陌生的问题， 他们能就此展开讨论， 这比他们在学年开始的时候长3，4分钟， 这真有意思。
We're no longer averse to word problems, because we've redefined what a word problem is.	孩子们不再反感数学问答题， 因为他们从新定义数学问答题。
We're no longer intimidated by math, because we're slowly redefining what math is.	孩子们不再恐惧数学， 因为他们在慢慢从新定义数学。
This has been a lot of fun.	这个过程很有意思。
I encourage math teachers I talk to to use multimedia, because it brings the real world into your classroom in high resolution and full color; to encourage student intuition for that level playing field; to ask the shortest question you possibly can and let those more specific questions come out in conversation; to let students build the problem, because Einstein said so; and to finally, in total, just be less helpful, because the textbook is helping you in all the wrong ways: It's buying you out of your obligation, for patient problem solving and math reasoning, to be less helpful.	我鼓励数学教师多多应用多媒体， 因为它把真实世界以高清晰度的图片和全色彩图像带到 你的教室， 来鼓励学生对那个场景的直觉， 来问你可能问的最短的问题， 让那些更细，更具体的问题随着交谈显露出来， 让学生们着手解决问题， 正如爱因斯坦所说， 总而言之，就是给予更少的帮助， 因为教科书在以非常错误的方式帮助大家。 它在免去大家 对耐心问题的解决和数学推理的责任，更没有帮助性。
And why this is an amazing time to be a math teacher right now is because we have the tools to create this high-quality curriculum in our front pocket.	那为什么现在是作为一个数学教师的绝好时候， 这是因为我们有工具来创造 这个高质量的数学课程，就在我们的口袋里的工具手机等等。
It's ubiquitous and fairly cheap, and the tools to distribute it freely under open licenses has also never been cheaper or more ubiquitous.	它无所不在，非常便宜。 还有自由散播它的工具， 在公开授权下， 从没有比现在更便宜或更普遍的社交互联网工具。
I put a video series on my blog not so long ago and it got 6,000 views in two weeks.	不久之前，我把一系列的录像放在我的博客里， 在两周之内它得到6000的观看率。
I get emails still from teachers in countries I've never visited saying, "Wow, yeah. We had a good conversation about that.	我还收到很多我从来没有去过的国家的邮件，有的教师写邮件说： "哦，是的。我们就此展开了很好的讨论。
Oh, and by the way, here's how I made your stuff better," which, wow.	哦，顺便说一下，这是我如何改善你教学材料的例子。" 这么多，喔。
I put this problem on my blog recently: In a grocery store, which line do you get into, the one that has one cart and 19 items or the line with four carts and three, five, two and one items.	我最近在我的博客上提出这个问题。 在一个杂物店，你排那个队， 一个是有一个手推车和19个商品 或是另一个有4个手推车和3，5，2 和1个商品。
And the linear modeling involved in that was some good stuff for my classroom, but it eventually got me on "Good Morning America" a few weeks later, which is just bizarre, right?	这里牵涉到的线性模型，它成为了我的教学中很好的材料， 但它最后让我上了在几周之前"早安，美国"的节目， 这的确是不可思议，对吧。
And from all of this, I can only conclude that people, not just students, are really hungry for this.	从所有这些，我只能下此结论 人们，不仅仅是学生， 都非常渴望这个。
Math makes sense of the world.	数学解读世界。
Math is the vocabulary for your own intuition.	数学也是描述人们 直觉的词汇。
So I just really encourage you, whatever your stake is in education -- whether you're a student, parent, teacher, policy maker, whatever -- insist on better math curriculum.	所以我只是鼓励大家，无论你们是什么教育程度， 无论你们是学生，还是家长，老师，决策者，不论是什么， 请坚持更好地应用数学教程。
We need more patient problem solvers. Thank you.	我们需要更多耐心的问题解决者。谢谢。
Feminists don't have a sense of humor. Feminists just want to be alone -- boo hoo, hoo, hoo. Feminists spread vicious lies and rumors. They have a tumor on their funny bone. They say child molestation isn't funny -- ha, ha, ha, ha. Rape and degradation's just a crime -- lighten up, ladies. Rampant prostitution's sex for money -- what's wrong with that? Can't these chicks do anything but whine? Dance break! Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da. Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da. Woo-hoo! Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da -- yeah, take it off. Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, dum. They say cheap objectification isn't witty -- it's hot! Equal work and wages worth the fight -- sing us a new one. On-demand abortion every city -- OK, but no gun control. Won't these women ever get a life? Feminists don't have a sense of humor -- poor Hillary. Feminists and vegetarians -- make mine a Big Mac. Feminists spread vicious lies and rumors. They're far too sensitive to ever be a ham, that's why these feminists just need to find a man. Da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da, da. I'm Dennis Kucinich and I approved this message.	女权主义者没有幽默感。 女权主义者只想独身。Boo hoo, hoo, hoo. 女权主义者散步恶毒的谎言和谣传 在她们的追求快乐骨子里有一颗毒瘤。 她们认为小孩的扰闹不是一种乐趣。哈……哈……哈……哈……。 强奸和堕落仅仅是犯罪——轻松点，女士们。 卖淫猖獗，钱色交易——这有什么错呢？ 难到这些小妞就只能哭哭啼啼吗？ 跳舞吧。哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒…… 哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒…… Woo-hoo！ 哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒…… 耶，脱掉 哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……dum 她们认为卑微的现实生活是无趣的——是艰难的！ 平等的工作和工资值得去争取 给我们唱一首新的。 每个城市可随心堕胎——没有枪械管制 这些妇女将永远得不到生活吗？ 女权主义者毫无幽默感——可怜的希拉里 女权主义者和素食主义者——给我做一个大汉堡。 女权主义者散布恶毒的谎言和谣传。 她们过于敏感，永远不能成为一个火腿。 这是这些女权主义者需要找一个男人的原因。 哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒……哒…… 我是丹尼斯．库辛尼奇（美国众议院议员），我批准了这些言论。
Thank you.	谢谢！
Thank you.	谢谢
Thank you.	谢谢
I asked my mother, you know, should I say anything in support of anyone?	我问过我妈妈，我需要如人们期望的那样说话吗？
And she said, "Oh no! Just dis everybody, except Ralph Nader."	她说："不！随意藐视任何人，除了拉尔夫纳德。"
I could show the world how to smile, I could be glad all of the while. I could turn the gray skies to blue, if I had you. I could leave the old days behind, leave all my pals, I'd never mind. I could start my life all anew, if I had you. I could climb the snow-capped mountains, sail the mighty ocean wide. I could cross the burning desert, if I had you by my side. I could be a king, dear, uncrowned, humble or poor, rich or renowned. There is nothing I couldn't do, if I had you. Thank you. Well, thank you so much.	我可以看到世界是怎么微笑的。 我将永远快乐。 如果有你我能使灰色天空变蓝。 我将忘却过去的岁月。 离开我所有的伙伴儿，我也在所不惜。 如果有你，我将开始我崭新的生活。 我可以攀登雪山。 渡过宽阔的神秘海洋。 如果有你相伴，我可以穿越火热的沙漠。 亲爱的，我会成为无冕的国王，无论尊贵与卑微，无论富有与贫困。 如果有你，我还有何是事不成呢。 谢谢！非常感谢！
Have you ever asked yourselves why it is that companies, the really cool companies, the innovative ones, the creative, new economy-type companies -- Apple, Google, Facebook -- are coming out of one particular country, the United States of America?	在座的各位有没有问过自己， 为什么那些 很酷的公司， 那些有创意、懂创新的 新经济型的公司 — — 苹果、 谷歌、脸书— — 都来自同一个国家 美国呢？
Usually when I say this, someone says, "Spotify!	通常当我谈到这一点时，有人会说，"Spotify ！"
That's Europe." But, yeah.	那是欧洲的公司。确实是的。
It has not had the impact that these other companies have had.	但这个公司远没有我提到的那几个美国公司的影响力。
Now what I do is I'm an economist, and I actually study the relationship between innovation and economic growth at the level of the company, the industry and the nation, and I work with policymakers worldwide, especially in the European Commission, but recently also in interesting places like China, and I can tell you that that question is on the tip of all of their tongues: Where are the European Googles?	我是一名经济学家， 我所研究的是 在公司、 行业和国家层面上 创新和经济增长之间的关系。 我与各国的政策制定者合作。 特别是为欧盟委员会工作， 最近也为一些生机盎然的国家比如中国工作。 我可以告诉你，我一开始问的那一问题 都曾从他们的舌尖上流出来过， 欧洲谷歌在哪里？
What is the secret behind the Silicon Valley growth model, which they understand is different from this old economy growth model?	硅谷经济增长模式背后的秘密是什么？ 他们的做法和 旧的经济增长模式的不同之处何在？
And what is interesting is that often, even if we're in the 21st century, we kind of come down in the end to these ideas of market versus state.	有趣的是，通常来讲， 即使我们现在处在 21 世纪， 我们会得出这样的结论，那就是 市场对抗国家。
It's talked about in these modern ways, but the idea is that somehow, behind places like Silicon Valley, the secret have been different types of market-making mechanisms, the private initiative, whether this be about a dynamic venture capital sector that's actually able to provide that high-risk finance to these innovative companies, the gazelles as we often call them, which traditional banks are scared of, or different types of really successful commercialization policies which actually allow these companies to bring these great inventions, their products, to the market and actually get over this really scary Death Valley period in which many companies instead fail.	这被认为是现代方式。 但是这种想法却和硅谷等地的背后秘密有所不同， 硅谷有不同的市场开拓机制。 私人动议，不管这个动议是否 属于动态风险投资范畴， 这些创新型公司都实际上 能够得到高风险融资。 被我们称为"羚羊企业"的这些领军公司所需要的融资 是那些传统银行所害怕接手的。 另外，不同类型的一些颇有成效的 商业化政策实际上允许这些公司 把他们绝妙的发明、他们的产品 直接推向市场，实际上得以 安然度过被称为"可怕死亡谷"的时期。 其他的很多公司却在这个时期一败涂地。
But what really interests me, especially nowadays and because of what's happening politically around the world, is the language that's used, the narrative, the discourse, the images, the actual words.	特别是现在， 源于世界上的政治动向， 真正让我感兴趣的是(商业中）使用的语言、叙述方法、 话语、 图像和实际使用的词汇。
So we often are presented with the kind of words like that the private sector is also much more innovative because it's able to think out of the box.	所以我们常常听到 诸如私营部门之类的词汇 都是更有新意的，因为它能 跳出惯常的思维，
They are more dynamic.	他们更有活力。
Think of Steve Jobs' really inspirational speech to the 2005 graduating class at Stanford, where he said to be innovative, you've got to stay hungry, stay foolish.	让我们回想史蒂夫 · 乔布斯 于2005年在斯坦福大学给毕业生做的演讲。 他当时说： 一个人要创新， 就需要保持求知欲，不断地去试错。
Right? So these guys are kind of the hungry and foolish and colorful guys, right?	对吧？这些人都是些如饥似渴、 懵懵懂懂又个性鲜明的家伙，对吧？
And in places like Europe, it might be more equitable, we might even be a bit better dressed and eat better than the U.S., but the problem is this damn public sector.	在像欧洲这样的地方 社会更公平， 我们甚至被美国人穿得更讲究， 吃得更可口。 但问题在于这些讨厌的公共部门。
It's a bit too big, and it hasn't actually allowed these things like dynamic venture capital and commercialization to actually be able to really be as fruitful as it could.	这些部门有些太庞大了，它实际上没法让 像动态风险资本 和商业化这样能够结出 商业硕果的事物存在。
And even really respectable newspapers, some that I'm actually subscribed to, the words they use are, you know, the state as this Leviathan. Right?	即使那些很受人推崇的报纸， 有些我正在订阅的报纸， 你知道，他们把 美国形容成"利维坦"。对吧？ 【译注：利维坦是霍布斯的同名政治哲学著作里虚构出来的庞然大物】
This monster with big tentacles.	有着巨大触角的怪兽。
They're very explicit in these editorials.	他们在他们的社论里非常明确地这样说。
They say, "You know, the state, it's necessary to fix these little market failures when you have public goods or different types of negative externalities like pollution, but you know what, what is the next big revolution going to be after the Internet?	他们说，"你知道，美国有必要 去修复这些小小的市场失灵。 当你拥有公共物资 或那些负面的外部因素比如污染时。 你知道吗，在互联网之后 下一次科技革命是什么吗？
We all hope it might be something green, or all of this nanotech stuff, and in order for that stuff to happen," they say -- this was a special issue on the next industrial revolution -- they say, "the state, just stick to the basics, right?	我们都希望它可能是一场绿色的革命。 或者是与纳米技术有关的革命，为了让新科技革命成为可能，"他们说 — 这是关于下一次工业革命的特殊议题 — — 他们说，"国家就是要专注于基础建设，对吧？
Fund the infrastructure. Fund the schools.	给基础设施和学校建设投资。
Even fund the basic research, because this is popularly recognized, in fact, as a big public good which private companies don't want to invest in, do that, but you know what?	也给基础科学研究投资，因为这是 得到共识的。事实上，私营公司不想为 大型的公共设施投资。 这是国家需要做的，你知道吗？
Leave the rest to the revolutionaries."	然后把剩下的留给革新者"。
Those colorful, out-of-the-box kind of thinkers.	那些个性鲜明、不拘一格的革新家，
They're often called garage tinkerers, because some of them actually did some things in garages, even though that's partly a myth.	通常被称为车库工匠， 他们中有些人确实是在车库里工作的， 这些故事都被传成神话了。
And so what I want to do with you in, oh God, only 10 minutes, is to really think again this juxtaposition, because it actually has massive, massive implications beyond innovation policy, which just happens to be the area that I often talk with with policymakers.	所以我想和你们讲的是，天哪， 只剩10 分钟了！ 是我们要再考量并行。 因为这种并行有非常非常巨大的影响力， 超越于某些与我合作的决策者 所在地区的 创新政策之上。
It has huge implications, even with this whole notion that we have on where, when and why we should actually be cutting back on public spending and different types of public services which, of course, as we know, are increasingly being outsourced because of this juxtaposition.	它有非常巨大的影响，甚至影响到整个国家 对我们在何时、何地、为何 要削减公共开支 和其他公共服务部门的开支的决策。 我们知道，正是由于这种并行，一些公共服务部门的工作 已经被更多的外包出去了。
Right? I mean, the reason that we need to maybe have free schools or charter schools is in order to make them more innovative without being emburdened by this heavy hand of the state curriculum, or something.	对吧？我是说，我们需要有公立学校或特许学校 通过国民必修课程等的重拳出击 无后顾之忧地把孩子们培养成为创新型人才。
So these kind of words are constantly, these juxtapositions come up everywhere, not just with innovation policy.	所以这些词汇的出现都是有一致性的， 不仅与创新政策有关， 这种并行简直无处不在。
And so to think again, there's no reason that you should believe me, so just think of some of the smartest revolutionary things that you have in your pockets and do not turn it on, but you might want to take it out, your iPhone.	所以，再回过头来想， 你们不需要相信我， 就想想你口袋里的一些最绝妙的 革新产品吧。 不要打开开关哟。你就拿出来看看你的iPhone吧。
Ask who actually funded the really cool, revolutionary thinking-out-of-the-box things in the iPhone.	你会问到底是谁给iPhone那些非常酷的 革新性、突破性的 技术投资的。
What actually makes your phone a smartphone, basically, instead of a stupid phone?	到底是什么让你的电话 基本上成了智能手机，而不仅仅是一个粗劣的手机呢？
So the Internet, which you can surf the web anywhere you are in the world; GPS, where you can actually know where you are anywhere in the world; the touchscreen display, which makes it also a really easy-to-use phone for anybody.	通过互联网，你可以在世界上的 任何地方上网冲浪。 通过GPS，你可以明确地知道 自己在世界的某个地方。 触摸屏显示，使手机真正变成 任何人都可以轻松学会使用的手机。
These are the very smart, revolutionary bits about the iPhone, and they're all government-funded.	iPhone的这些非常巧妙的、革新性的部分 其实全部都是由政府资助的。
And the point is that the Internet was funded by DARPA, U.S. Department of Defense.	就是说，互联网是由 DARPA美国国防部资助的。
GPS was funded by the military's Navstar program.	全球定位系统（GPS) 是由军方的 Navstar项目出资的。
Even Siri was actually funded by DARPA.	甚至语音控制功能 都实际上是由 DARPA资助的。
The touchscreen display was funded by two public grants by the CIA and the NSF to two public university researchers at the University of Delaware.	触屏显示是 由两个国家部门：中情局（CIA)和国家科学基金会 资助美公立大学特拉华大学的两位科研人员而开发出来的。
Now, you might be thinking, "Well, she's just said the word 'defense' and 'military' an awful lot," but what's really interesting is that this is actually true in sector after sector and department after department.	现在，您会想，"好吧，她只不过是讲了好几遍的 '国防' 和 '军事' 什么的。" 有趣的是，这些都是事实。 就是由国家的一个又一个的部门，一个又一个的直属单位来做的。
So the pharmaceutical industry, which I am personally very interested in because I've actually had the fortune to study it in quite some depth, is wonderful to be asking this question about the revolutionary versus non-revolutionary bits, because each and every medicine can actually be divided up on whether it really is revolutionary or incremental.	我个人对制药业非常感兴趣。 因为我有幸比较 深入地研究了这一行。 一个很有趣的问题是关于 革新型和非革新型药物的。 因为每种药物都实际上可以 被分为革新型或者改进型。
So the new molecular entities with priority rating are the revolutionary new drugs, whereas the slight variations of existing drugs -- Viagra, different color, different dosage -- are the less revolutionary ones.	有优先评级的新分子实体药物 是革新型药物。 而对原有药物进行细微改进的— — 比如伟哥，改变药物颜色、 改变药物剂量 — — 这就属于非革新型药物了。
And it turns out that a full 75 percent of the new molecular entities with priority rating are actually funded in boring, Kafkian public sector labs.	结果呢，75%的 有优先评级的新分子实体 都实际上是由，老掉牙的Kafkian 公共部门实验室提供资金。
This doesn't mean that Big Pharma is not spending on innovation.	这并不意味着大型制药公司不把钱花费在创新上。
They do. They spend on the marketing part.	他们也这样做。他们也往市场营销这一部分投钱。
They spend on the D part of R&amp;D.	他们只是花钱用于开发市场。
They spend an awful lot on buying back their stock, which is quite problematic.	他们花费相当多的资金来购回自己的股票， 这是很成问题的。
In fact, companies like Pfizer and Amgen recently have spent more money in buying back their shares to boost their stock price than on R&amp;D, but that's a whole different TED Talk which one day I'd be fascinated to tell you about.	事实上，辉瑞和安进这样的大公司最近 为了抬高他们的股票价格，花在购买他们自家股票的资金 远远超过他们花在研发方面的资金。 这涉及了一个完全不同的 TED 演讲主题， 有一天我会很高兴讲给你们听的。
Now, what's interesting in all of this is the state, in all these examples, was doing so much more than just fixing market failures.	现在，在所有新研发的例子里，最有趣的是， 美国这个国家， 所做的要比单纯修复市场失灵多得多。
It was actually shaping and creating markets.	它实际上是在塑造和创造市场。
It was funding not only the basic research, which again is a typical public good, but even the applied research.	它不仅给基本研究投资， 那是典型的公共利益。 它而且给应用研究投资。
It was even, God forbid, being a venture capitalist.	上帝保佑吧，它甚至成了风险资本家（给风险企业投资）。
So these SBIR and SDTR programs, which give small companies early-stage finance have not only been extremely important compared to private venture capital, but also have become increasingly important.	这些小型企业研发资金项目（SBIR和SDTR) 给小型公司提供早期的财政支持。 跟私人风险资本来投资比起来， 对于小企业这是非常非常重要的。 而且变得越来越重要。
Why? Because, as many of us know, V.C. is actually quite short-term.	为什么呢？因为，我们很多人都知道， 私人风险投资实际上是相当短期的行为。
They want their returns in three to five years.	他们想在三至五年内得到回报。
Innovation takes a much longer time than that, 15 to 20 years.	可是创新需要比那更长的时间， 通常要15 到 20 年。
And so this whole notion -- I mean, this is the point, right?	这就是整个的概念 — — 我是说，这是重点，对吧？
Who's actually funding the hard stuff?	谁实际上在给研发难题提供资金？
Of course, it's not just the state.	当然，不仅仅是国家政府。
The private sector does a lot.	私营部门也做了很多。
But the narrative that we've always been told is the state is important for the basics, but not really providing that sort of high-risk, revolutionary thinking out of the box.	但是事实总是告诉我们 国家对于奠定研发的基础非常重要。 但是它并不是那种高风险的 革新性创意本身。
In all these sectors, from funding the Internet to doing the spending, but also the envisioning, the strategic vision, for these investments, it was actually coming within the state.	所有这些公共部门，他们从资助互联网 到负担期间的花费。他们甚至提供预想阶段和 战略设想阶段的资金支持。 这些资金实际上都是来自于国家政府。
The nanotechnology sector is actually fascinating to study this, because the word itself, nanotechnology, came from within government.	纳米技术部门很醉心于 这项研究。而纳米技术这个词汇本身 就是政府部门给起的。
And so there's huge implications of this.	它当然会带来巨大的影响。
First of all, of course I'm not someone, this old-fashioned person, market versus state.	首先，当然我不是那些， 守旧的认为"国家对抗市场"的人。
What we all know in dynamic capitalism is that what we actually need are public-private partnerships.	我们对动态资本主义的理解就是 我们确实需要"公共与私人"这样的伙伴关系。
But the point is, by constantly depicting the state part as necessary but actually -- pffff -- a bit boring and often a bit dangerous kind of Leviathan, I think we've actually really stunted the possibility to build these public-private partnerships in a really dynamic way.	但问题是,政府部门通常被描述成 一个必要的存在， 但实际上 — —噗 — — 有点呆板 一个通常会带来危险的利维坦。 我想我们真的在阻碍， 以一种真正动态的方式 去建立"公共-私人"伙伴关系的可能性。
Even the words that we often use to justify the "P" part, the public part -- well, they're both P's -- with public-private partnerships is in terms of de-risking.	我们经常为"P"部分辩解， 公共（public)部分— — 其实，如果说到去风险化， 这可是两个 P — — 公共（public)-私人伙伴关系。
What the public sector did in all these examples I just gave you, and there's many more, which myself and other colleagues have been looking at, is doing much more than de-risking.	在我给大家的讲的这些例子里，以及其他更多的领域里 公共部门的作用 是我和其他的同事都很关心的。 公共部门的作用不仅仅是去风险化这一点作用。
It's kind of been taking on that risk. Bring it on.	公共部门也在承担风险，勇往直前。
It's actually been the one thinking out of the box.	它实际上也成了创新科技的一部分。
But also, I'm sure you all have had experience with local, regional, national governments, and you're kind of like, "You know what, that Kafkian bureaucrat, I've met him."	但同时，我确定你们都和 地方级、 区域级以及国家级的政府打过交道。 你会说，"你知道吧，我见过那个卡夫卡式的官僚。"
That whole juxtaposition thing, it's kind of there.	整个并行的关系其实一直都有的。
Well, there's a self-fulfilling prophecy.	那么，有个自我实现的预言
By talking about the state as kind of irrelevant, boring, it's sometimes that we actually create those organizations in that way.	是在讲国家是不相干的， 呆板的。有的时候 是我们自己把这些组织机构搞成这个样子的。
So what we have to actually do is build these entrepreneurial state organizations.	所以我们现在要做的就是 把这些国家政府机构建成创业型机构。
DARPA, that funded the Internet and Siri, actually thought really hard about this, how to welcome failure, because you will fail.	资助互联网和语音控制系统的美国国防部高级研究计划局 实际上对风险投资深思熟虑过， 如何迎接失败呢，因为你总会有失败的。
You will fail when you innovative.	你如果勇于创新，肯定有失败的时候。
One out of 10 experiments has any success.	10次实验中的一次也许会有成功。
And the V.C. guys know this, and they're able to actually fund the other losses from that one success.	搞风险投资的人当然知道这些。 他们其实愿意为那些有过一次成功的 失败者提供资金。
And this brings me, actually, probably, to the biggest implication, and this has huge implications beyond innovation.	而这实际上让我觉得 有非常大的意义。 这个意义已经超过了创新科技的巨大影响。
If the state is more than just a market fixer, if it actually is a market shaper, and in doing that has had to take on this massive risk, what happened to the reward?	国家政府不仅仅有市场修复的功能， 而且有塑造市场的功能。 因此，政府需要在创新科技上冒大险 那么回报是什么呢？
We all know, if you've ever taken a finance course, the first thing you're taught is sort of the risk-reward relationship, and so some people are foolish enough or probably smart enough if they have time to wait, to actually invest in stocks, because they're higher risk which over time will make a greater reward than bonds, that whole risk-reward thing.	如果你学过金融课，你会知道 你学到的第一课就大概是风险与回报的关系， 因此有些人愚蠢至极 或者说聪明至极，他们把时间花在 投资股票上，因为股票的风险高 所以随之而来的回报也自然高。 这就是所说的风险回报的关系。
Well, where's the reward for the state of having taken on these massive risks and actually been foolish enough to have done the Internet?	政府在创新科技上 冒了如此大的风险，那么回报在哪里？ 政府搞什么互联网，是不是傻过了头？
The Internet was crazy.	互联网是疯狂的。
It really was. I mean, the probability of failure was massive.	确实是。我的意思说，它带来的失败可能是巨大的。
You had to be completely nuts to do it, and luckily, they were.	你一定得是个傻子采取给它投资。 幸运的是，他们是傻子。
Now, we don't even get to this question about rewards unless you actually depict the state as this risk-taker.	现在，我们还没提到回报这事儿呢。 除非你把美国政府描绘成冒险家。
And the problem is that economists often think, well, there is a reward back to the state. It's tax.	问题是经济学家们往往认为， 政府当然有回报呀，那些税收呀。
You know, the companies will pay tax, the jobs they create will create growth so people who get those jobs and their incomes rise will come back to the state through the tax mechanism.	你知道，公司当然会交税， 他们创造就业机会，税收自然会增长。 人们得到那些工作，他们的工资得以提高， 然后通过交纳税款回报政府。
Well, unfortunately, that's not true.	可遗憾的是，事实并非如此。
Okay, it's not true because many of the jobs that are created go abroad.	是的，事实不是这样的，因为许多就业的岗位在国外。
Globalization, and that's fine. We shouldn't be nationalistic.	全球化，这没问题。我们不应该持民族主义态度。
Let the jobs go where they have to go, perhaps.	也许我们就应该让这些工作岗位安置在合适的地方。
I mean, one can take a position on that.	我是说，总有人会受雇上岗吧。
But also these companies that have actually had this massive benefit from the state -- Apple's a great example.	但这些公司 其实从政府那儿得到了巨大的好处。 苹果就是一个很好的例子。
They even got the first -- well, not the first, but 500,000 dollars actually went to Apple, the company, through this SBIC program, which predated the SBIR program, as well as, as I said before, all the technologies behind the iPhone.	他们甚至是第一 — — 好吧，也许不是第一， 但是他们确实通过SBIC计划 得到了50万美元的资助。 该计划早于后来的SBIR计划。 同样，我交代过，iPhone背后的所有技术。
And yet we know they legally, as many other companies, pay very little tax back.	但是我们知道在法律上， 和其他公司一样，苹果公司只需要上缴很少的税款。
So what we really need to actually rethink is should there perhaps be a return-generating mechanism that's much more direct than tax. Why not?	所以我们确实需要重新思考的是 也许需要有一个利润回报机制 让这些公司回报比税款更多的资金给政府。为什么不呢？
It could happen perhaps through equity.	也许可以通过发行股票的方式。
This, by the way, in the countries that are actually thinking about this strategically, countries like Finland in Scandinavia, but also in China and Brazil, they're retaining equity in these investments.	顺便说一下，其他国家 实际上也在考虑使用这样的方法。 比如说芬兰、斯堪的那维亚 还有中国和巴西。 他们的政府持有这些创新公司的股票。
Sitra funded Nokia, kept equity, made a lot of money, it's a public funding agency in Finland, which then funded the next round of Nokias.	希特拉给诺基亚投资，持有他们的股票，赚了很多钱， 它是芬兰的一个公共的投资机构。 它后来又资助了诺基亚的下一代产品。
The Brazilian Development Bank, which is providing huge amounts of funds today to clean technology, they just announced a 56 billion program for the future on this, is retaining equity in these investments.	巴西开发银行 现在提供大量资金 去开发保洁技术。他们刚刚宣布了 一个资助未来保洁技术的560 亿的计划。 他们会保有这些发明的上市股票。
So to put it provocatively, had the U.S. government thought about this, and maybe just brought back just something called an innovation fund, you can bet that, you know, if even just .05 percent of the profits from what the Internet produced had come back to that innovation fund, there would be so much more money to spend today on green technology.	把它说得诱人些， 美国政府完全可以考虑 通过一些所谓的"创新基金" 得到更多的回报。 你知道吗，你完全可以打赌，如果仅仅 0.5% 由互联网带来的收益 回报给"创新基金"的话， 就会有更多的钱 可以投资到绿色科技上。
Instead, many of the state budgets which in theory are trying to do that are being constrained.	可是正相反，许多政府预算 都想这么去做的， 可是资金有限。
But perhaps even more important, we heard before about the one percent, the 99 percent.	但或许更重要的是， 我们之前听过 1%， 99%。
If the state is thought about in this more strategic way, as one of the lead players in the value creation mechanism, because that's what we're talking about, right?	如果美国政府能够更有战略眼光， 成为价值生成机制的主导者该有多好。 这就是我们在讨论的重点，对吧？
Who are the different players in creating value in the economy, and is the state's role, has it been sort of dismissed as being a backseat player?	谁在市场经济中充当创造价值的特殊一员？ 考虑到政府的作用， 政府是不是成了市场经济中的候补队员了？
If we can actually have a broader theory of value creation and allow us to actually admit what the state has been doing and reap something back, it might just be that in the next round, and I hope that we all hope that the next big revolution will in fact be green, that that period of growth will not only be smart, innovation-led, not only green, but also more inclusive, so that the public schools in places like Silicon Valley can actually also benefit from that growth, because they have not.	实际上，如果我们有一个更广义的 价值生成理论，我们可以允许 政府对科技投资，以期回报。 也许下一轮的科技创新时，我们就可以这样做。 我希望我们期待的下一个巨大变革 会真的是绿色革命。 那个时期的经济增长， 不仅是智能的、 创新主导的、 不仅是绿色的，更应该是包容的， 这样，像在硅谷的那些公立学校 就可以从经济增长中直接受益。 但是他们还没有受益。
Thank you.	谢谢。
There are more Chinese restaurants in this country than McDonald's, Burger King, Kentucky Fried Chicken and Wendy's, combined -- 40,000, actually.	在这个国家里的中国餐馆 比麦当劳®，汉堡王®，肯德基®和温蒂快餐®加起来还要多。 事实上，有4万家。
Chinese restaurants have played an important role in American history, as a matter of fact.	中餐馆在美国历史上发挥了很重要的作用， 这也是事实。
The Cuban missile crisis was resolved in a Chinese restaurant called Yenching Palace in Washington, D.C., which unfortunately is closed now, and about to be turned into Walgreen's.	古巴导弹危机 是在华盛顿一个名叫"燕京宫"的中餐馆里 解决掉的。 可惜的是，它现在关闭了， 而且要改建成沃尔格林连锁药店。
And the house that John Wilkes Booth planned the assassination of Abraham Lincoln is actually also now a Chinese restaurant called Wok 'n Roll, on H Street in Washington.	而约翰·威尔克斯·布斯 刺杀了林肯总统的那座房子， 现在也变成了一家中餐馆， 就是位于华盛顿的"锅和卷"。
And it's not completely gratuitous, because wok and roll -- Chinese food and Japanese foods, so it kind of works out.	这个餐馆名也不是完全没意义的， 因为锅和卷， 中国菜和日本菜， 还是有点关系的。
And Americans love their Chinese food so much they've actually brought it into space.	美国人如此的喜欢中国菜， 他们甚至带上了太空。
NASA, for example, serves thermal-stabilized sweet-and-sour pork on its shuttle menu for its astronauts.	比如说，美国宇航局就把恒温的糖醋猪肉 列入了给宇航员准备的航天菜单。
So, let me present the question to you: If our benchmark for Americanness is apple pie, you should ask yourself, how often do you eat apple pie, versus how often do you eat Chinese food. Right?	那么，让我来问你们这样一个问题： 如果我们自身的美国象征是个苹果派， 你应该问你自己， 你多久吃一次苹果派？ 还有多久吃一次中国菜？
And if you think about it, a lot of the foods that you think of or we think of or Americans think of as Chinese food are barely recognizable to Chinese, for example: beef with broccoli, egg rolls, General Tso's Chicken, fortune cookies, chop suey, the take-out boxes.	如果你仔细想想， 你就会发现 有很多你们认为，我们认为或者美国人认为是中国菜的食物， 中国人并不认识。 比如说： 西兰花牛肉，蛋卷，左宗棠鸡， 幸运饼干，炒杂烩，外卖盒子。
For example, I took a whole bunch of fortune cookies back to China, gave them to Chinese to see how they would react.	例如，我拿了一大盒幸运饼干带回中国， 给中国人吃，来看看他们会有怎样的反应。
What is this?	这是什么？
Should I try it?	我可以尝尝吗？
Try it!	尝一尝。
What is it called?	这叫什么名字啊？
Fortune cookie.	幸运饼干。
There's a piece of paper inside!	里面有张纸啊～
What is this?	这是什么？
You've won a prize!	你中奖了！
What is this?	这是什么？
It's a fortune!	是一个幸运。
Tasty!	挺好吃的。
So, where are they from?	那么，他们是从哪里来的？
The short answer is, actually, they're from Japan.	简单的说，他们是从日本来的。
And in Kyoto, outside, there are still small family-run bakeries that make fortune cookies, as they did over 100 years ago, 30 years before fortune cookies were introduced in the United States.	在京都城外， 现在还有些小型的家庭糕点坊 在制作幸运饼干。 就像他们一百多年以前做的一样。 三十年后幸运饼干就传入了美国。
If you see them side by side, there's yellow and brown.	如果你把他们摆在一起看， 你会发现一个是黄色，一个是棕色。
Theirs are actually flavored with miso and sesame paste, so they're not as sweet as our version.	日式的加入了豆面酱和芝麻酱， 没有我们的甜。
So, how did they get to the United States?	那么，他们是怎样传入美国的呢？
Well, the short answer is, the Japanese immigrants came over, and a bunch of the bakers introduced them -- including at least one in Los Angeles, and one here in San Francisco called Benkyo-do, which is on the corner of Sutter and Buchanan.	简单说来，日本移民来到了美国， 一群面包师就引进了他们。 洛杉矶至少有一家， 在旧金山这里有一家。 名字叫做学习堂。
They back then, actually, made fortune cookies using very much the similar kind of irons that we saw back in Kyoto.	在那时， 他们制作幸运饼干用的模具 和我们在京都看见的非常相似。
So, the interesting question is, how do you go from fortune cookies being something that is Japanese to being something that is Chinese?	有意思的是， 幸运饼干是怎么从日本的东西 变成中国的东西了的呢？
Well, the short answer is, we locked up all the Japanese during World War II, including those that made fortune cookies, so that's the time when the Chinese moved in, kind of saw a market opportunity and took over.	简单的说， 二战时，我们收押了所有的日本人， 包括了那些做幸运饼干的人。 就在这时候，中国人来了， 发现了一个市场机遇，就据为己有了。
So, fortune cookies: invented by the Japanese, popularized by the Chinese, but ultimately consumed by Americans.	因此，幸运饼干， 由日本人发明， 由中国人推广， 而最终给美国人消费。
They are more American than anything else.	他们比任何东西都要具有美国特色。
Another one of my favorite dishes: General Tso's Chicken -- which, by the way, in the US Naval Academy is called Admiral Tso's Chicken.	接下来是我最喜欢的菜肴之一， 左宗棠鸡。 顺便提一下，在美国海军军官学校， 它被叫做左司令鸡。
I love this dish.	我喜欢这道菜。
The original name in my book was actually called The Long March of General Tso, and he has marched very far indeed, because he is sweet, he is fried, and he is chicken -- all things that Americans love.	在我的书中，它原本被叫做 左宗棠将军的长征。 他确实是前进了非常远， 因为他是甜的，是油炸的，是鸡肉做的—— 这三样都是美国人最喜欢的。
He has marched so far, actually, that the chef who originally invented the dish doesn't recognize it; he's kind of horrified.	他前进了如此之远， 连发明了这道菜的厨师都认不出来了。 他有点被吓到了。
He's in Taiwan right now.	他现在在台湾，
He's retired, deaf and plays a lot of Mahjong.	退休了，耳聋了，打很多麻将。
So, he -- after this I showed him, he got up, and he's like, "Mominqimiao," which means, "This is all nonsense," and goes back to play his Mahjong game during the afternoon.	在我把图片给他看后， 他站起来， 说着"莫名其妙" 意思是"我完全不明白" 然后回去继续打了一下午的麻将。
So, another dish. One of my favorites. Beef with broccoli.	另外一道我喜欢的菜，西兰花牛肉。
Broccoli is not a Chinese vegetable; in fact, it is originally an Italian vegetable.	西兰花不是中国的蔬菜， 事实上，它是意大利的蔬菜。
It was introduced into the United States in the 1800s, but became popularized in the 1920s and the 1930s.	19世纪初时，引进了美国， 在20世纪20到30年代开始受到欢迎。
In fact, the Chinese had their own version of broccoli, which is called Chinese broccoli, but right now, what -- they've now discovered American broccoli, and are importing it as a, sort of, exotic delicacy.	中国人也有自己的西兰花， 就是油菜。 但是现在，中国人发现了美国的西兰花， 便开始把它当作外国食物来进口。
I guarantee you, General Tso never saw a stalk of broccoli in his life -- and indeed, that actually was a picture of General Tso.	我可以向你保证，左宗棠将军一辈子都没有见过一株西兰花。 这是一种左宗棠将军的图像。
I went to his home town.	我去了他的家乡。
This is a billboard that says: "Welcome to the birthplace of General Tso."	这个宣传栏上写着： "欢迎来到左宗棠的故里。"
And I went looking for chicken.	我去寻找小鸡，
Finally found a cow -- and did find chicken.	最后找到一头母牛～ 还是找到了一些鸡，
Believe it or not, these guys were actually crossing the road.	信不信由你， 这些家伙还真在过马路。
And -- -- I actually found a whole bunch of General Tso's relatives who are still in the little town.	还有～ 我发现了一群左宗棠将军的亲戚， 他们仍然在这个小镇上生活。
This guy is now five generations removed from the General; this guy is about seven.	这个人是左宗棠将军的第五代后代， 这个人差不多是第七代。
Showed them all the pictures of General Tso Chicken that I showed you, and they're like, we don't know this dish.	给他们看了我给你们看的这些左宗棠鸡的图片， 他们都说，我们不知道这道菜。
And then they're like, is this Chinese food?	他们还问，这是中国菜吗？
Because it doesn't look like Chinese food to them.	因为对他们来说，这看上去不像中国菜。
But they weren't kind of surprised I traveled around the world to visit them, because in their eyes he is, after all, a famous Qing dynasty military hero.	但是他们并没有对 我大老远跑来拜访他们 而感到惊讶， 因为在他们看来，左宗棠将军 到底是位著名的清朝名将。
He played an important role in the Taiping rebellion, which was a war started by a guy who thought he was the son of God and the baby brother of Jesus Christ.	他在镇压太平天国运动中发挥了重要的作用。 太平天国运动的发起者， 自称是上帝的儿子， 耶稣的亲弟弟。
And caused the war that killed 20 million people -- still the deadliest civil war in the world to this day.	这场战争中，有2千万人丧生， 至今仍是世界上伤亡最惨重的战争。
So, you know, I realized when I was there, General Tso is kind of a lot like Colonel Sanders in America, in that he's known for chicken and not war.	你知道吗，我那时就意识到了， 左宗棠将军有点像美国的桑德斯上校， 因为他是因为鸡肉而不是战争而闻名。
But in China, this guy's actually known for war and not chicken.	但在中国，他确实是因为战争而不是鸡肉 而闻名。
But the granddaddy of all the Chinese-American dishes we probably ought to talk about is chop suey, which was introduced around the turn of the 20th century.	但我们可能要谈到的 所有美式中国菜 的祖师爷 是炒杂烩。 它是在20世纪初的时候 传入美国的。
And according to New York Times, in 1904, there was an outbreak of Chinese restaurants all over town, and "the city has gone 'chop suey' mad."	据《纽约时报》指出， 在1904年，整个市镇上下，突然出现了很多中餐馆， "整个城市为了炒杂烩而疯狂。"
So it took about 30 years before the Americans realized that, whoa, chop suey is actually not known in China.	过了30多年， 美国人才意识到， 原来在中国，没有人知道炒杂烩。
And as this article points out, "The average native of any city in China knows nothing of chop suey."	就如同这篇文章所指出的一样， "中国任何一个城市里的普通老百姓， 完全不知道炒杂烩。"
You know, back then it was a way to show that you were sophisticated and cosmopolitan: if you were a guy and you wanted to impress a girl, you could take her out on a chop suey date.	在那时，有一种办法来显示 你很老于世故有世界意识。 如果你是个男人，你想要给一个女孩留下深刻印象， 那么你可以带她出去吃炒杂烩。
I like to say chop suey's the biggest culinary joke that one culture has ever played on another, because chop suey, if you translate into Chinese, means tsap sui, which, if you translate back, means "odds and ends."	我想说， 炒杂烩是一个文化给另外一个文化 开的最大的一个烹饪玩笑。 因为炒杂烩， 如果你翻译成中文， 意思是"杂碎"，在翻译过来， 就是"零碎的东西"。
So, these people are going around China asking for chop suey, which is sort of like a Japanese guy coming here and saying, I understand you have a very popular dish in your country called "leftovers," and it is particularly -- -- right?	因此，很多人去中国要吃炒杂烩， 这就有点像有个日本人 来到美国说， 你知道你们国家有一道非常有名的菜， 叫做"剩菜" —— 对吧？
And not only that: this dish is particularly popular after that holiday you call Thanksgiving.	还不仅仅是这， 这道菜尤其著名， 是在你们称之为"感恩节"的节日后。
So, why -- why and where -- did chop suey come from?	那么，炒杂烩 为什么，从哪里来呢？
Let's go back to mid-1800s when the Chinese first came to America.	让我们回到19世纪中页， 第一批中国移民来到美国的时候。
Now back then, the Americans were not clamoring to eat Chinese food.	那时，美国人 并不喜欢吃中国菜。
In fact, they saw this people who landed at their shores as alien.	事实上，他们把这些移民当做外星人。
These people weren't eating dogs -- they were eating cats -- and they weren't eating cats -- they were eating rats.	这些人没有吃狗肉， 就在吃猫肉， 没有吃猫肉，就在吃老鼠肉。
In fact, The New York Times, my esteemed employer, in 1883 ran an article that asked, "Do Chinese eat rats?"	事实上，我尊敬的雇主《纽约时报》 在1883年发表了一篇文章说， "中国人吃老鼠肉吗？"
And not the most PC question to be asked today, but if you kind of look at the popular imagery of the time, not so outlandish.	现在看来，这并不是个政治正确的问题， 但是如果你稍微考虑一下当时的普遍情况， 这个问题并没有特别怪异。
This is actually a real advertisement for rat poison from the late 1800s, and if you see, under the word "Clears" -- very small -- it says, "They must go," which refers not only to the rats, but to the Chinese in their midst, because the way that the food was perceived was that these people who ate foods different from us must be different from us.	这是19世纪末期的一个真正的 老鼠药广告。 你看，在"清除"这个字下面，非常小的字， 写着，"一定要赶走他们。" 这里的"他们"不仅仅是指老鼠， 还指生活在他们当中的中国人。 因为当时人们对于食物的理解方式是， 和我们吃不一样的食物的人， 一定和我们不一样。
And another way that you saw, sort of, this sort of, this antipathy towards the Chinese is through documents like this.	你可以看到，对中国人的厌恶情绪 在另外一种方式 表现为这样的文件。
This is actually in the Library of Congress; it is a pamphlet published by Samuel Gompers, hero of our American labor movement, and it's called, "Some Reason for Chinese Exclusion: Meat versus Rice: American Manhood against Asiatic Coolieism: Which shall survive?	这份文件现存于美国国会图书馆； 是由美国劳工运动的英雄， 塞缪尔·龚帕斯发表的。 它叫做"排除华人的一些理由： 肉食对大米：美国男人对亚洲苦力 孰胜孰负？
And it basically made the argument that Chinese men who ate rice would necessarily bring down the standard of living for American men who ate meat.	这份文件基本上提出了一个论点， 吃大米的中国人 必然会降低吃肉食的美国人的 生活标准。
And as a matter of fact, then, this is one of the reasons why we must exclude them from this country So, with sentiments like these, the Chinese Exclusion Act was sort of passed between 1882 and 1902, the only time in American history when a group was specifically excluded for its national origin or ethnicity.	事实上， 这就是为什么我们一定要把他们排斥在我们国家之外 的原因之一。 因此，有了像这样的观点， 《排华法案》在1882年到1902年之间通过了。 那是美国历史上唯一一段时期， 一个群体会因为自己的民族特性 而被特别的排斥。
So, in a way, because the Chinese were attacked, chop suey was created as a defense mechanism.	在某种程度上说，因为中国人被攻击了， 他们就发明了炒杂烩做为一种防卫机制。
Now, who came up with the idea of chop suey?	那么，是谁想出来做炒杂烩的呢？
There's a lot of different mysteries, a lot of different legends, but of the ones that I've found that I thought was most interesting is this article from 1904.	这里有很多不同的传说 但在我发现的一些故事中我认为最有趣的 是1904年的一篇文章。
A Chinese guy named Lem Sen shows up in Chinatown, New York City, and says, I want you guys all to stop making chop suey, because I am the original creator and sole proprietor of the dish known as chop suey.	一个叫做林森的中国人 出现在了纽约的唐人街，说道， 我要你们所有人都停止做炒杂烩， 因为我是炒杂烩菜的原始的发明者， 也是唯一的所有者。
And the way that he tells it, there was a guy, there was a famous Chinese diplomat that showed up, and he was told to make a dish that looked very popular and could, quote, "pass" as Chinese.	据他所说， 有个人， 有个很著名的中国外交官来了， 别人叫他做一道菜，要看起来很流行， 可以当作中国菜。
And as he said -- we would never print this today -- but basically, the American man has become very rich.	他还说， 我们今天也许都不会说出来， 但是美国人都变的很有钱了。
Lem Sen, who's this guy: I would have made this money, too, but I've spent all this time looking for the American man who stole my recipe.	林森说： 我本可以也赚这么多钱， 但我吧所以时间都花在了寻找那个 偷了我的食谱的美国人。
Now I've come and found him, and I want my recipe back and I want everyone to stop making chop suey, or pay me for the right to do the same.	现在我来到了这里找到了他， 我想把我的食谱要回来， 我想要每个人都停止制造炒杂烩菜， 要不就付版权费给我。
So it was an early exercise of intellectual property rights.	这么看来，这是一次知识产权的 早期运用。
So the thing is, this kind of idea of Chinese-American food doesn't exist only in America.	问题是， 这种美式中国菜 并不仅仅存在于美国。
In fact, if you think about it, Chinese food is the most pervasive food on the planet, served on all seven continents, even Antarctica, because Monday night is Chinese food night at McMurdo Station, which is the main scientific station in Antarctica.	只有你想想就会发现， 中国菜是地球上最无处不在的食物， 在七大洲上都有，甚至是南极洲。 因为在南极洲最大的考察站麦克默多站 星期一晚上是中国菜之夜。
So, you see different varieties of Chinese food.	有许许多多不同种类的中国菜。
For example, there is French Chinese food, where they serve salt and pepper frog legs.	例如，有法式中国菜， 他们提供椒盐蛙腿。
There is Italian Chinese food, where they don't have fortune cookies, so they serve fried gelato.	有意式中国菜， 他们没有幸运饼干， 但他们有油炸意式冰淇淋。
My downstairs neighbor, Alessandra, was completely shocked when I told her, "Dude, fried gelato is not Chinese."	我的楼下邻居亚历山大 在我告诉她 "伙计，油炸意式冰淇淋不是中国的。"之后无比震惊。
She's like, "It's not?	她说，"不是的？
But they serve it in all the Chinese restaurants in Italy."	但在意大利的每一家中餐馆都有的吃。"
And even the Brits have their own version.	英国人也有有自己特色的中国菜。
This is a dish called crispy shredded beef, which has a lot of crisp, a lot of shred, and not a lot of beef.	这道菜叫做酥碎牛肉丝， 有很多酥皮，很多碎屑，没有很多牛肉。
There is West Indian Chinese food, there's Jamaican Chinese food, there is Middle Eastern Chinese food, there's Mauritian Chinese food.	还有西印度中国菜， 牙买加式中国菜， 中东中国菜， 毛里求斯中国菜。
This is a dish called Magic Bowl that I discovered.	我发现了一道叫做魔术之碗 的菜。
There's Indian Chinese food, Korean Chinese food, Japanese Chinese food, where they take the bao, the little buns, and they make them into pizza versions, and they take -- and they -- like, totally randomly they'll take Chinese noodle dishes, and they'll just Ramen-ize them.	还有印度中国菜， 韩式中国菜， 日式中国菜， 日本人把小包子 做成了比萨。 他们还 很随意的， 他们把中式的面条， 也做出了日式拉面。
This is, like, this is something that in the Chinese version has no soup.	像这个， 在中国的版本中就没有汤的。
So, there's Peruvian Chinese food, which should not be mixed with Mexican Chinese food, where they basically take things and make it look like fajitas.	还有秘鲁中国菜， 不要和墨西哥中国菜混淆了， 因为后者基本上只是 把所有的菜都做得像墨西哥法士达铁板烧。
And then -- one thing: they have things like risotto chop suey.	还有一个， 他们还有炒杂烩意式调味饭。
My personal favorite of all the restaurants I've encountered around the world was this one in Brazil, called "Kung Food."	我在整个世界里 见到的所以餐馆中我最喜欢的一个 是在巴西的这个，叫做"功夫菜"
So, let's take a step back, and kind of, understand what is to be appreciated in America.	让我们退回来一步， 来想想， 在美国有什么值得注意的。
McDonald's has, sort of, garnered a lot of attention, a lot of respect, for basically standardizing the menu, décor and dining experience in post-World War II America.	麦当劳® 获得了很多的关注与尊重， 因为其在二战后的美国 在菜单，装潢和就餐体验方面 树立了一个基本的标准。
But you know what?	但是你知道吗？
They actually did so through a centralized headquarters out of Illinois, right?	他们实际上 是通过伊利诺斯州的总部 来做的这些的，是吧？
Chinese restaurants have done largely the same thing, I would argue, with the menu and the décor -- even the restaurant name -- but without a centralized headquarters.	我可以说， 中餐馆也做了大致一样的事情， 规范菜单，装潢 甚至是餐馆名称， 但他们没有一个中心总部。
So, this actually became very clear to me with the March 30, 2005 Powerball drawing, where, you know, they expected, based on the number of ticket sales they had, to have three or four second-place winners -- those are the people who match five or six Powerball numbers.	于是，在2005年3月30日的超级球抽奖活动中， 我明白了。 那一次抽奖， 他们根据售出的彩票数目 估计会有三四个二等奖获得者， 就是那些猜中了五六个号码的人。
Instead, they had 110, and they were completely shocked.	但他们有110个， 他们完全惊呆了。
They looked all across the country, and discovered it couldn't necessarily be fraud, because it happened, you know, in different states, across different computer systems.	他们在全国上下调查， 发现不太可能是个骗局， 因为这些彩票 是在不同的州，不同的电脑系统。
So whatever it was, it caused people to sort of behave in a mass synchronized way.	不管是什么， 有种东西，让人们有了 群体同步行为。
So, like, OK, maybe it had to do with the patterns on the little pieces of paper -- you know, like, it was a diamond, or, you know, diagonal.	好吧，也可能是那一小张彩票 上面的某种图案。 就像也许是菱形， 或者是对角线。
It wasn't that.	但不是这样的。
It wasn't that, so they're like, OK, let's look at television, so they looked at an episode of "Lost."	不是这样的，他们就说， 让我们从电视节目上找找吧。 因此，他们看了一集《迷失》
Now, I don't have a TV, which makes me a freak, but very productive, and -- -- and this episode of "Lost," I understand, where the overweight guy has a lucky number which was not a lucky number, which was how long they'd been on the island, but they looked, and the numbers did not match.	我没有电视机， 别人觉得我很古怪，但这使得我工作富有成效～ 我知道，这一集《迷失》 讲的是一个白人的幸运号码， 事实上却不是幸运号码， 讲的是他们在岛上呆了多长时间， 他们对照了， 号码不相符。
So they looked at "The Young and The Restless," and it wasn't that, either.	他们还看了《不安分的青春》， 号码也不对。
So, it wasn't until the first guy shows up the next day, and they ask him, "Where did you get your number from?"	直到第二天第一个获奖者出现 他们问他， "你的号码从哪里来的？"
He's like, "Oh, I got it from a fortune cookie."	他说，"哦，我从一个幸运饼干中得到的。"
This actually is a slip that one of the winners had, because the Tennessee lottery security officials were like, oh, no -- like, this can't be true.	这就是其中一个获奖者的幸运签， 因为田纳西州彩票安全局 觉得这不可能是真的，
But it was true, and basically, of those 110 people, and 104 of them or so had gotten their number from the fortune cookie.	但这是真的。 这110个人中，基本上有 104个人 的号码是从幸运饼干中得到的。
Yeah. So, I went and started looking.	是的，因此，我开始调查。
I went across the country, looking for these restaurants where these people had gotten their fortune cookies from.	我跑遍了全国， 来寻找那些 获奖者吃到幸运饼干的餐馆。
You know, there are a bunch of them, including Lee's China in Omaha -- which is actually run by Koreans, but that's another point -- and a bunch of them named China Buffet.	有很多家， 包括在奥马哈市的李氏中餐厅， 事实上那是由韩国人开的，但这不是重点。 还有很多家叫做自助中餐。
So, what's interesting is that their stories were similar, but they were different.	有意思的是，他们的故事都相似， 但却有所不同。
It was lunch, it was take-out, it was sit-down, it was buffet, it was three weeks ago, it was three months ago.	有的是午餐，有的是外卖， 有的是坐下来吃，有的是自助餐， 有的是三星期前，有的是三个月前。
But at some point, all these people had a very similar experience that converged at a fortune cookie and at a Chinese restaurant, and all these Chinese restaurants were serving fortune cookies, which, of course we know aren't even Chinese to begin with.	但在某种程度上， 所以这些人都有一个非常相似的经历， 在一个中餐馆，吃了一个幸运饼干。 所有这些中餐馆 都有幸运饼干。 而我们已经知道， 这些饼干一开始就不是中国的。
So it's kind of part of the phenomenon I called spontaneous self-organization, right, where, like in ant colonies, where little decisions made by -- on the micro-level actually have a big impact on the macro-level.	这就有点像我所说的 自发组织现象。 就像在蚂蚁群中， 在微观层面上做出的小小的决定， 会在宏观层面上产生巨大的影响。
So, a good sort of contrast is Chicken McNuggets.	一个很好的对比是， 麦当劳®的麦乐鸡块。
McDonald's actually spent 10 years coming out with a chicken-like product.	麦当劳®花了十年 才推出了鸡肉之类的产品。
They did chicken pot pie, they did fried chicken, and then they finally introduced Chicken McNuggets.	他们做了鸡肉馅饼， 炸鸡， 他们最后推出了麦乐鸡块。
And the great innovation of Chicken McNuggets was not nuggetfying them, because that's kind of an easy concept, but the trick behind Chicken McNuggets was, they were able to remove the chicken from the bone in a cost-effective manner, which is why it took so long for other people to copy them.	麦乐鸡块的新发明， 并没有给他们带来金块， 因为这个想法很简单， 但麦乐鸡块背后的技巧是， 如何用一种划算的方式来 把鸡肉从骨头上剔出来。 这就是为什么过了这么久 才有人模仿他们。
It took 10 years, and then within a couple of months, it was such a hit they just introduced it and rolled it across the entire system of McDonald's in the country.	花了十年时间， 然后在短短几个月之内， 他们就推出了麦乐鸡块， 并在全国麦当劳连锁的整个系统中都推广了， 可真是风行一时。
In contrast, we have General Tso's Chicken, which actually started in New York City in the early 1970s, as I was also starting in the university in New York City in the early 1970s, so ...	相反， 我们有左宗棠鸡， 是在20世纪70年代在纽约城里兴起的， 20世纪70年代初期，我也正在纽约读大学～
And this logo!	还有这个标志！
So me, General Tso's Chicken and this logo are all karmacally related.	于是，我，左宗棠鸡，还有这个标志 都在宇宙范围内有了联系。
But that dish also took about 10 years to spread across America from a random restaurant in New York City.	但是这道菜也花了将近十年， 才从纽约城里的某家餐馆 推广到全国的。
Someone's like, oh, God -- it's sweet, it's fried, it's chicken: Americans will love this.	有人想到， 噢，天哪～ 这道菜是甜的，是油炸的，是鸡肉做的： 美国人一定会喜欢。
So, what I like to say, you know, this being sort of Bay Area, Silicon Valley -- is that we think of McDonald's as sort of the Microsoft of the dining experiences.	我想说的是，如果这是海湾地区，硅谷 我们可以把麦当劳®看作 是餐饮业的微软。
We can think of Chinese restaurants perhaps as Linux: sort of an open source thing, right, where ideas from one person can be copied and propagated across the entire system, that there can be specialized versions of Chinese food, you know, depending on the region.	我们可以把中餐馆看作Linux: 一种开源系统，对吧？ 一个人的想法 可以在这整个系统中被复制，被普及。 在不同的地区，就有特别版本的 中国菜。
For example, you know, in New Orleans we have Cajun Chinese food, where they serve Sichuan alligator and sweet and sour crawfish, right?	比如说， 在新奥尔良，我们有法人后裔风味的中国菜， 你可以吃到四川短吻鳄和糖醋小龙虾。
And in Philadelphia, you have Philadelphia cheesesteak roll, which looks like an egg roll on the outside, but a cheesesteak on the inside.	在费城， 你可以吃到费城奶酪牛排卷， 它外面看上去像一个蛋卷， 但在里面有奶酪牛排。
I was really surprised to discover that, not only in Philadelphia, but also in Atlanta, because what had happened was that a Chinese family had moved from Atlanta to -- sorry, from Philadelphia to Atlanta, and brought that with them.	我很惊讶的发现， 不仅仅是在费城有，在亚特兰大也有。 原因是， 一个中国家庭 从费城搬到了亚特兰大， 把奶酪牛排卷也带过去了。
So, the thing is, our historical lore, because of the way we like narratives, are full of vast characters such as, you know, Howard Schultz of Starbucks and Ray Kroc with McDonald's and Asa Chandler with Coca-Cola.	问题是， 我们的历史知识中， 由于我们对于叙事故事的喜爱， 充斥了大量的人物。 比如说，星巴克®的霍尔德·舒尔茨 麦当劳®的雷·克拉克 还有可口可乐®的艾萨·凯德勒
But, you know, it's very easy to overlook the smaller characters -- oops -- for example, like Lem Sen, who introduced chop suey, Chef Peng, who introduced General Tso Chicken, and all the Japanese bakers who introduced fortune cookies.	但是，你知道， 我们非常容易忽视掉小人物。 比如说，发明了炒杂烩的 林森， 发明了左宗棠鸡的 彭厨师， 还有发明了幸运饼干的 所有日本面包师。
So, the point of my presentation is to make you think twice, that those whose names are forgotten in history can often have had as much, if not more, impact on what we eat today.	我这篇报告的目的是， 让你能够反复的思考， 那一些名字被历史遗忘了的人， 对于我们现在吃的食物， 有着同样，也许更加重要的影响。
So. Thank you very much.	谢谢大家。
Daffodil Hudson: Hello?	达芙迪尔·哈德森：你好？
Yeah, this is she.	是的，我就是
What?	什么？
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, of course I accept.	哦，是，是，是，是，我当然接受。
What are the dates again?	是几号来着？
Pen. Pen. Pen.	笔，笔，笔。
March 17 through 21.	3月17到21号
Okay, all right, great. Thanks.	好的，没有问题，谢谢。
Lab Partner: Who was that?	实验小伙伴：谁打来的？
DH: It was TED.	达·哈德森：是TED.
LP: Who's TED?	小伙伴：谁是TED？
DH: I've got to prepare.	达·哈德森：我需要开始准备了。
["Give Your Talk: A Musical"] ["My Talk"] Procrastination. What do you think?	【音乐剧："来演讲吧"】 【"我的演讲"】 拖-延-症- 你怎么看
Can I help you?	请问你们找谁？
Speaker Coach 1: Let's prepare for main stage. It's your time to shine. If you want to succeed then you must be primed. Speaker Coach 2: Your slides are bad but your idea is good so you can bet before we're through, speaker, we'll make a TED Talk out of you. Speaker Coach 3: We know about climate change, but what can you say that's new? SC 1: Once you find your focus then the talk comes into view. SC 2: Don't ever try to sell something from up on that stage or we won't post your talk online. All: Somehow we'll make a TED Talk out of you. SC 1: Ready to practice one more time?	演讲助理1： 让我们开始准备主要的部分 是你闪耀的时候了 如果你想成功 你一定要做好准备。 演讲助理2： 你的幻灯片做的不好 但是想法很赞 所以在我们帮助你之前你大可放心 助理们： 我们会打造一个属于你的TED演讲 演讲助理3： 我们知道气候变化 但是关于这个你有什么新的想法？ 演讲助理1： 一旦你找到了你的核心观点 你便知道该如何演讲 演讲助理2： 不要尝试去宣传商品 当你站在台上的时候 否则我们不会将你的演讲发布在网上 助理们： 我们一定会打造一个属于你的TED演讲 演讲助理1：准备好再排练一遍了吗？
DH: Right now?	达·哈德森：现在？
Stagehand: Break a leg.	后台人员：祝你好运。
DH: I'll never remember all this. Will the clicker work when I press it? Why must Al Gore go right before me? Oh man, I'm scared to death. I hope I don't pass out onstage and now I really wish I wasn't wearing green. All: Give your talk. SC 1: You must be be sweet like Brené Brown. All: Give your talk. SC 2: You must be funny like Ken Robinson. All: Give your talk. SC 3: You must be cool like Reggie Watts All: and bring out a prop like Jill Bolte Taylor. DH: My time is running over. The clock now says nil. I'm saying my words faster. Understand me still. I'm too nervous to give this TED Talk. All: Don't give up. Rehearse. You're good. We'll edit out the mistakes that you make. Give your talk. DH: I will be big like Amy Cuddy. All: Give your talk. DH: I will inspire like Liz Gilbert. All: Give your talk. DH: I will engage like Hans Rosling and release mosquitos like Bill Gates. SC 2: I'll make a TED Talk out of you. I'll make a TED Talk out of you. I'll make a TED Talk out of you. I'll make a TED Talk out of you. I'll make a TED Talk out of you. ["Brought to you by TED staff and friends"]	达·哈德森： 这些东西我肯定记不住。 控制器到时候能不能正常工作？ 为什么 阿尔·戈尔在我之前？ （阿尔·美国副总统， 在气候变化上有着突出的贡献） 哦不，我好害怕啊 希望我在台上不要昏倒 现在我真的希望我不用穿绿色。 合： 来演讲吧 演讲助理1： 你要像布雷内·布朗一样可爱。 （TED演讲者，情绪研究者） 合： 来演讲吧 演讲助理2： 你要像肯·罗宾逊一样风趣 （TED演讲者，作家，教育家） 合： 来演讲吧 演讲助理3： 你要像雷吉·瓦特一样帅气 （TED演讲者，歌手，口技者，喜剧演员） 合： 像吉尔·波特·泰勒那样 淡定从容地带着自己的道具。 （TED演讲者，大脑研究者） 达·哈德森： 我的快没时间了，计时器已经到0了。 我现在说的越来越快，希望能明白我的意思。 我紧张到不能做这个TED演讲了 合： 别放弃，排练。你很赞。 我们会帮你剪辑你演讲的失误 合： 来演讲吧 达·哈德森： 我要像 艾米·科迪一样有分量 （TED演讲者，社会心理学家） 合： 来演讲吧 达·哈德森： 我要像 伊丽莎白·吉尔伯特去激发别人 （TED演讲者，作家） 合： 来演讲吧 达·哈德森： 像汉斯·罗斯林一样吸引别人 （TED演讲者，健康专家，数据统计学家） 还要放掉蚊子 像比尔·盖茨一样 演讲助理2： 我们一定会打造一个属于你的TED演讲 我们一定会打造一个属于你的TED演讲 我们一定会打造一个属于你的TED演讲 我们一定会打造一个属于你的TED演讲 我们一定会打造一个属于你的TED演讲 【"本剧由TED员工以及朋友为您呈现"】
What is bioenergy? Bioenergy is not ethanol.	什么是生物能源？生物能源不是乙醇。
Bioenergy isn't global warming. Bioenergy is something which seems counterintuitive. Bioenergy is oil. It's gas. It's coal. And part of building that bridge to the future, to the point where we can actually see the oceans in a rational way, or put up these geo-spatial orbits that will twirl or do microwaves or stuff, is going to depend on how we understand bioenergy and manage it. And to do that, you really have to look first at agriculture.	生物能源也不是全球变暖。生物能源 与很多人想象的东西不是一回事。生物能源 石油，是煤炭，是通向 未来的桥梁的一部分。在那个彼岸，我们终于能够 理性地看待我们的海洋，或者 建立这些地理空间轨道，让它们能高速旋转或者 小幅度地波动，这些都将取决于 我们如何理解并管理好生物能源。要做到这些， 你必须首先了解农业。
So we've been planting stuff for 11,000 years. And in the measure that we plant stuff, what we learn from agriculture is you've got to deal with pests, you've got to deal with all types of awful things, you've got to cultivate stuff. In the measure that you learn how to use water to cultivate, then you're going to be able to spread beyond the Nile.	人类种植农作物的历史已经有11000年了。 在种植的过程中，我们学会了 如何对付害虫， 还要面对各种各样的麻烦， 培育出新的作物。了解到 如何用水来灌溉农田后， 你还要能够把尼罗河水抽取上来。
You're going to be able to power stuff, so irrigation makes a difference.	你需要有动力设备，才能实现灌溉 产量就会大不相同。
Irrigation starts to make you be allowed to plant stuff where you want it, as opposed to where the rivers flood. You start getting this organic agriculture; you start putting machinery onto this stuff. Machinery, with a whole bunch of water, leads to very large-scale agriculture.	灌溉使你能够随心所欲地种植农作物， 而不是只能种在 河水能够流到的地方。你可以开展这种有机农业， 你开始使用机械设备进行生产。 机械化，结合大量的水， 使大规模的农业生产成为可能。
You put together machines and water, and you get landscapes that look like this. And then you get sales that look like this. It's brute force. So what you've been doing in agriculture is you start out with something that's a reasonably natural system. You start taming that natural system. You put a lot of force behind that natural system. You put a whole bunch of pesticides and herbicides -- -- behind that natural system, and you end up with systems that look like this.	运用机械及水，得到了 现在这样一幅图景。然后这样的一些 产品就能够销售出去。这是巨大外力的作用。 这样一个发展农业的过程，是从 一个原本相当自然的体系起步， 最终去驯服这个自然体系。 你把很多外力施加于这个自然体系。 你使用了大量的杀虫剂和除草剂 在这个自然系统中。 你最终把这个系统改造成这个样子。
And it's all brute force. And that's the way we've been approaching energy. So the lesson in agriculture is that you can actually change the system that's based on brute force as you start merging that system and learning that system and actually applying biology. And you move from a discipline of engineering, you move from a discipline of chemistry, into a discipline of biology. And probably one of the most important human beings on the planet is this guy behind me.	这是在蛮干。这也是我们 取得能源的方式。应此 农业给我们带来的教训是，你可以 在使用大规模外力作用于一个体系的时候 融入这个体系，研究这个体系并将 生物学运用于其中。你从遵循 机械的原理，运用化学的原理，转为 遵循生物学的原则。 这个世界上最重要的人之一， 就是我身后的这个人。
This is a guy called Norman Borlaug. He won the Nobel Prize. He's got the Congressional Medal of Honor. He deserves all of this stuff. And he deserves this stuff because he probably has fed more people than any other human being alive because he researched how to put biology behind seeds. He did this in Mexico. The reason why India and China no longer have these massive famines is because Norman Borlaug taught them how to grow grains in a more efficient way and launched the Green Revolution. That is something that a lot of people have criticized. But of course, those are people who don't realize that China and India, instead of having huge amounts of starving people, are exporting grains.	他的名字叫Norman Borlaug。 他得到了诺贝尔奖。还获得了国会荣誉奖章。 这一切都是他应得的。 因为他的贡献是让更多的人吃饱饭。 对此他做出的贡献比任何其他人都大。 他把生物学理论用于育种。 他在墨西哥完成这项研究。这就是为什么 印度和中国不再有那么多人挨饿。 Norman Borlaug教他们如何用更高效的 方法种植粮食作物，掀起一场 绿色革命。很多人对此 持批评的态度。当然，那是因为，那些人 没有意识到，中国和印度 不仅不再挨饿， 并且在出口粮食。
And the irony of this particular system is the place where he did the research, which was Mexico, didn't adopt this technology, ignored this technology, talked about why this technology should be thought about, but not really applied.	具有讽刺意味的是，这个方法 在他进行这项研究的地方——墨西哥 这项技术没有得到应用，反而是被忽视。 有人认为这项技术还有欠考虑的地方， 而没有真正去应用它。
And Mexico remains one of the largest grain importers on the planet because it doesn't apply technology that was discovered in Mexico. And in fact, hasn't recognized this man, to the point where there aren't statues of this man all over Mexico. There are in China and India. And the Institute that this guy ran has now moved to India. That is the difference between adopting technologies and discussing technologies.	墨西哥仍旧是世界上最大的 谷物进口国，因为他们没有应用 在他们的国家发明的这项技术。 事实上，他们并不认同这个人， 墨西哥没有这个人的塑像。 而在中国和印度都有。 这个人设立的研究机构现在搬到了 印度。这就是谈论一项技术和应用 这项技术二者之间的区别。
Now, it's not just that this guy fed a huge amount of people in the world. It's that this is the net effect in terms of what technology does, if you understand biology.	现在，不仅仅是这个人的技术让世界上大量 的人有饭吃，而且，这示范了 科学技术所能起到的作用。如果 你懂得生物学的话。
What happened in agriculture? Well, if you take agriculture over a century, agriculture in about 1900 would have been recognizable to somebody planting a thousand years earlier. Yeah, the plows look different. The machines were tractors or stuff instead of mules, but the farmer would have understood: this is what the guy's doing, this is why he's doing it, this is where he's going. What really started to change in agriculture is when you started moving from this brute force engineering and chemistry into biology, and that's where you get your productivity increases. And as you do that stuff, here's what happens to productivity.	农业发生了怎样的变化？如果你回头看 一个世纪以前的农业， 1900年的农业跟一千年前的 种植方法没有很大的区别。是的，看起来，犁的样子 有些不同。人们用上了拖拉机等机械 而不是骡子，但是农民们 知道，这仍是人在操作， 他还是要这么做，没什么太大的不同。 农业真正开始改变 始自从使用大规模的 机械和化学力量转为运用生物学。并且 从此生产力大大提高了。 自从你那么做以后，产量 这样的变化：
Basically, you go from 250 hours to produce 100 bushels, to 40, to 15, to five. Agricultural labor productivity increased seven times, 1950 to 2000, whereas the rest of the economy increased about 2.5 times. This is an absolutely massive increase in how much is produced per person.	基本上，产量从每250个小时生产100蒲式耳， 变为40、15，甚至5个小时就可以生产这么多。农业劳动力 的生产效率提高了7倍，从1950年到2000年间， 其他的经济活动提高的程度是 2.5倍。这样的提高真是突飞猛进， 人均产出大大增加。
The effect of this, of course, is it's not just amber waves of grain, it is mountains of stuff.	当然，这种效果，看上去 不仅是麦浪滚滚，而是堆积如山了。
And 50 percent of the EU budget is going to subsidize agriculture from mountains of stuff that people have overproduced.	结果是欧盟百分之五十的预算用于 对农业的补贴，补贴给人们生产出的这些粮食， 无疑已经是过度生产。
This would be a good outcome for energy. And of course, by now, you're probably saying to yourself, "Self, I thought I came to a talk about energy and here's this guy talking about biology."	能源要是也有这样的局面就好了。 当然，听到这里，你也许会对自己说， "嘿，我想我是来听有关能源的演讲， 可是这家伙在这里大谈生物。"
So where's the link between these two things?	那么，这两个事物间的联系是什么呢？
One of the ironies of this whole system is we're discussing what to do about a system that we don't understand. We don't even know what oil is. We don't know where oil comes from. I mean, literally, it's still a source of debate what this black river of stuff is and where it comes from. The best assumption, and one of the best guesses in this stuff, is that this stuff comes out of this stuff, that these things absorb sunlight, rot under pressure for millions of years, and you get these black rivers.	整个体系中具有讽刺意味的一点是， 我们在讨论对一个我们所不了解的体系要做点什么。 我们甚至都不知道石油到底是什么。 我们不知道石油是从哪里来的。 事实上，这至今都是有争议的， 这流动着的黑色物质到底是什么，是从哪里 来的。最靠谱的假说和猜测， 这种物质来自于这些东西。 这些东西吸收 阳光，在压力的作用之下腐烂 经过了上百万年，变成了这黑色河流。
Now, the interesting thing about that thesis -- if that thesis turns out to be true -- is that oil, and all hydrocarbons, turned out to be concentrated sunlight. And if you think of bioenergy, bioenergy isn't ethanol. Bioenergy is taking the sun, concentrating it in amoebas, concentrating it in plants, and maybe that's why you get these rainbows.	那么，这个理论有意思的地方在于， 如果这个理论是成立的，那么石油 以及所有的碳氢化合物，都是 浓缩的阳光。如果你再来看 生物能源，生物能源不是乙醇，生物能源是 来自于太阳，浓缩在变形虫中， 浓缩在植物里，可能那就是 为什么有这些彩虹。
And as you're looking at this system, if hydrocarbons are concentrated sunlight, then bioenergy works in a different way. And we've got to start thinking of oil and other hydrocarbons as part of these solar panels.	你在审视这个体系的时候，如果 碳氢化合物是浓缩的阳光， 生物能源是以不同的方式起作用的。我们必须 把石油和其他碳氢化合物看作是 太阳能板的一部分。
Maybe that's one of the reasons why if you fly over west Texas, the types of wells that you're beginning to see don't look unlike those pictures of Kansas and those irrigated plots.	也许这就是其中的一个原因，当你飞过得克萨斯西部时， 看到那些油井的景象 似曾相识， 它们与堪萨斯的灌溉图景大同小异。
This is how you farm oil. And as you think of farming oil and how oil has evolved, we started with this brute force approach. And then what did we learn? Then we learned we had to go bigger. And then what'd we learn? Then we have to go even bigger. And we are getting really destructive as we're going out and farming this bioenergy.	这就是如何"收获"石油的景象。当你想象 石油可以这样收获以及它们是如何演化来的，我们开始 使用采用这种大规模外力的做法。然后，我们 学到了什么呢？我们学到了必须更大规模地干。 然后又学到什么呢？那就是还要干的 更大。我们变得破坏性越来越大， 在以这种方式收获生物能源的过程中。
These are the Athabasca tar sands, and there's an enormous amount -- first of mining, the largest trucks in the world are working here, and then you've got to pull out this black sludge, which is basically oil that doesn't flow. It's tied to the sand. And then you've got to use a lot of steam to separate it, which only works at today's oil prices.	这是阿萨巴斯卡油砂田，油井 星罗棋布，第一步是开采， 世界上最大的卡车在这里工作。 然后人们把这些黑色泥沙拉走， 这些黑泥基本上就是不流动的石油。 因为石油跟泥沙结合在一起了。下一步就要用 大量的蒸气使它们分离，其成本之高 只有在现在的高油价下才有可能。
Coal. Coal turns out to be virtually the same stuff. It is probably plants, except that these have been burned and crushed under pressure.	煤炭事实上是差不多同样的 东西。其来源也是植物，不同之处在于 这些植物曾被焚烧，再被高压压碎。
So you take something like this, you burn it, you put it under pressure, and likely as not, you get this. Although, again, I stress: we don't know.	你就用这一类东西，经过燃烧，把它们置于 压力之下，多半不会得到这样的 东西。尽管这样，我一再强调：我们并不知道真相。
Which is curious as we debate all this stuff. But as you think of coal, this is what burned wheat kernels look like. Not entirely unlike coal.	我们就这些事情进行辩论是出于好奇。 当你在考虑煤炭时，它们看起来跟燃烧过的 麦子很相似。这看起来跟煤炭没有太大差别。
And of course, coalmines are very dangerous places because in some of these coalmines, you get gas. When that gas blows up, people die. So you're producing a biogas out of coal in some mines, but not in others.	当然，开采煤炭是非常危险的事情， 因为在一些煤矿里，你会 发现有毒气体。当这些气体爆炸时，是会死人的。 这些生物气体（比如沼气）存在于有些 煤矿，另外一些煤矿则没有。
Any place you see a differential, there're some interesting questions. There's some questions as to what you should be doing with this stuff. But again, coal. Maybe the same stuff, maybe the same system, maybe bioenergy, and you're applying exactly the same technology.	每个地方都有些不同之处，有些问题 很有意思。有的问题诸如 你应该如何对待这些东西。但是 仍以煤炭为例，它们可能是同样的东西，可能 是生成与同样的体系，可能就是生物能源，你都在运用 相同的技术。
Here's your brute force approach. Once you get through your brute force approach, then you just rip off whole mountaintops. And you end up with the single largest source of carbon emissions, which are coal-fired gas plants. That is probably not the best use of bioenergy.	这就是施加大规模外力的方法。一旦你能够 成功地使用这种方法，结果是 整个山头被夷平。最终是 造成最大单一来源的碳排放， 即燃煤燃气发电厂。这也许 并不是对生物能源的最好的利用。
As you think of what are the alternatives to this system -- it's important to find alternatives because it turns out that the U.S. is dwindling in its petroleum reserves, but it is not dwindling in its coal reserves, nor is China. There are huge coal reserves that are sitting out there, and we've got to start thinking of them as biological energy, because if we keep treating them as chemical energy, or engineering energy, we're going to be in deep doo-doo.	当你试图发现还有什么更好的选择， 找到一种替代性的方法是很重要的， 因为人们意识到美国的 石油储备在不断减少，但是 煤炭的储备并未减少，中国也是如此。 煤炭的储备量非常之大， 我们应该开始考虑把煤炭看作 生物能源，因为如果我们继续视其为 化学能源，或机械能源，我们 会陷入大麻烦。
Gas is a similar issue. Gas is also a biological product. And as you think of gas, well, you're familiar with gas. And here's a different way of mining coal.	天然气也是类似的。天然气也是一种 生物产品。当你想到天然气时， 你会觉得很熟悉。开采天然气的方法 是不同于采煤的。
This is called coal bed methane. Why is this picture interesting? Because if coal turns out to be concentrated plant life, the reason why you may get a differential in gas output between one mine and another -- the reason why one mine may blow up and another one may not blow up -- may be because there's stuff eating that stuff and producing gas.	这种气体称为煤层甲烷气。为什么 这个画面很有趣？因为如果煤炭真的是 浓缩的植物体，那么你在 不同的煤矿发现有不同的气体 有的煤矿会爆炸 而有的又不会，可能都是因为 有些东西吃掉了另一些东西而产生气体。
This is a well-known phenomenon. You eat certain things, you produce a lot of gas. It may turn out that biological processes in coalmines have the same process. If that is true, then one of the ways of getting the energy out of coal may not be to rip whole mountaintops off, and it may not be to burn coal. It may be to have stuff process that coal in a biological fashion as you did in agriculture.	这是一个广为人知的现象。你 吃了某种东西后，会产生很多气体。 那可能也是在生物进程中煤矿中发生的 类似过程。如果这是真的， 那么从煤炭中获取能源的方法 就可以不必夷平整个山头， 也可能不必燃烧煤炭。也许可以对 煤炭进行某种生物处理，就像在 农业中所做的那样。
That is what bioenergy is. It is not ethanol. It is not subsidies to a few companies. It is not importing corn into Iowa because you've built so many of these ethanol plants. It is beginning to understand the transition that occurred in agriculture, from brute force into biological force. And in the measure that you can do that, you can clean some stuff, and you can clean it pretty quickly.	这才是生物能源的含义。而不是什么乙醇。 并不是说要补贴几个公司，也不是 进口玉米到爱荷华州，去喂饱那些已经建起来的 乙醇工厂。而是要开始 去理解发生在农业中的转变。 从大规模外力的模式转为使用生物力量。 在这么做的过程中， 你可以使很多东西变得清洁， 很快就可以做到。
We already have some indicators of productivity on this stuff. OK, if you put steam into coal fields or petroleum fields that have been running for decades, you can get a really substantial increase, like an eight-fold increase, in your output. This is just the beginning stages of this stuff.	我们在这方面已经有了一些生产力的指标。 如果你将蒸气打入煤矿 或者油田，它们已经被开发了 几十年，你可以获得明显的 增产，比如产量增加8倍。 这还只是最开始的 步骤。
And as you think of biomaterials, this guy -- who did part of the sequencing of the human genome, who just doubled the databases of genes and proteins known on earth by sailing around the world -- has been thinking about how you structure this. And there's a series of smart people thinking about this. And they've been putting together companies like Synthetic Genomics, like, a Cambria, like Codon, and what those companies are trying to do is to think of, how do you apply biological principles to avoid brute force?	在你考虑生物材料时，这个人， 就是他完成了对人类基因组测序的一部分工作， 因为他的工作，基因和蛋白质数据库的数据量 倍增，他为此走遍了全世界， 他也在考虑你将如何构建这个体系。 还有很多高人 在考虑这个问题。他们走到一起 成立了像Synthetic Genomics这样的公司， 还有Cambria、Condon等公司，这些公司 都在试图发现，你如何能够运用 生物学原则来避免使用大规模的外力？
Think of it in the following terms. Think of it as beginning to program stuff for specific purposes.	请用以下的理念去考虑问题。把这事想象成 为了某种特殊目的开始一项计划。
Think of the cell as a hardware. Think of the genes as a software. And in the measure that you begin to think of life as code that is interchangeable, that can become energy, that can become food, that can become fiber, that can become human beings, that can become a whole series of things, then you've got to shift your approach as to how you're going to structure and deal and think about energy in a very different way.	把细胞想象成硬件。把 基因想象成软件。在你以这种方式 去想象生命的代码 是可以互换的，可以变成能源，也可以 变成食物，还可以变成纤维，还可以 变成人，可以变成一系列的 各种东西。然后你必须转换 你的思维方法，去构思和设想 能源问题，从一个完全不同于以往的 角度。
What are the first principles of this stuff and where are we heading? This is one of the gentle giants on the planet. He's one of the nicest human beings you've ever met. His name is Hamilton Smith. He won the Nobel for figuring out how to cut genes -- something called restriction enzymes.	什么是有关这些东西的最重要的原则？ 我们应向何处去？这是这个星球上最温顺的 庞然大物。他是你所见过的人里面 最好的人。他的名字叫汉密尔顿-史密斯。 他因发明如何切分基因而获得诺贝尔奖。 这种基因称为限制性内切酶。
He was at Hopkins when he did this, and he's such a modest guy that the day he won, his mother called him and said, "I didn't realize there was another Ham Smith at Hopkins. Do you know he just won the Nobel?" I mean, that was Mom, but anyway, this guy is just a class act. You find him at the bench every single day, working on a pipette and building stuff. And one of the things this guy just built are these things.	他当时在霍普金斯，他是如此 谦虚的一个人，在他获奖的那天，他的母亲 问他说："我不知道在霍普金斯还有另外一个 Ham Smith。你知道他刚刚获得了 诺贝尔奖么？"我的意思是，这就是母亲。 不过，他本人也正是这样的。你会发现 他每天都在工作台那里，在用 吸液管构建一些东西。他做的事情之一 就是制造了这些东西。
What is this? This is the first transplant of naked DNA, where you take an entire DNA operating system out of one cell, insert it into a different cell, and have that cell boot up as a separate species. That's one month old. You will see stuff in the next month that will be just as important as this stuff.	这是什么？这是第一次移植的 经过剥离的DNA，你从细胞里提取了整个DNA的 运行体系，注入到不同的 细胞，再把那个细胞培育成另一个 物种。这个细胞已经生存了1个月。下个月你将看到 很重要的东西， 象这个一样重要。
And as you think about this stuff and what the implications of this are, we're going to start not just converting ethanol from corn with very high subsidies. We're going to start thinking about biology entering energy. It is very expensive to process this stuff, both in economic terms and in energy terms.	当你设想这个东西会给我们带来的 影响的时候，我们正在开始的一种转化， 不是那种享有很高的补贴的，将玉米转化为乙醇 的过程，我们正在开始考虑把 生物学用在能源方面。这种转化过程 代价很高，不论从经济的角度看，还是从 能源的角度来说。
This is what accumulates in the tar sands of Alberta. These are sulfur blocks. Because as you separate that petroleum from the sand, and use an enormous amount of energy inside that vapor -- steam to separate this stuff -- you also have to separate out the sulfur. The difference between light crude and heavy crude -- well, it's about 14 bucks a barrel. That's why you're building these pyramids of sulfur blocks. And by the way, the scale on these things is pretty large.	这是一种积聚在阿尔伯塔的油砂中的物质， 大堆大堆的硫磺。因为我们在从油砂中 分离石油的时候，要使用 大量的能源进行蒸馏， 用蒸汽分离这些物质——你同时会分离出 硫磺来。轻质原油与重质原油的差别在于， 它们的价格每桶相差14美元。 这就是为什么你会看到这些堆的象金字塔 般的硫磺。并且，这些东西的 规模相当大。
Now, if you can take part of the energy content out of doing this, you reduce the system, and you really do start applying biological principles to energy. This has to be a bridge to the point where you can get to wind, to the point where you can get to solar, to the point where you can get to nuclear -- and hopefully you won't build the next nuclear plant on a beautiful seashore next to an earthquake fault. Just a thought.	现在，如果你能够把做这部分工作消耗的能源 减少的话，你就简化了整个体系，并且 开始运用生物学原则于 能源的生产。这将是联系各种新能源的桥梁， 诸如风能的利用，太阳能的利用， 以及核能的利用，等等。 希望你今后就不需要在风光秀美的海边， 在地震断层的附近建设新的核电厂。 这还仅仅是个设想。
But in the meantime, for the next decade at least, the name of the game is hydrocarbons. And be that oil, be that gas, be that coal, this is what we're dealing with. And before I make this talk too long, here's what's happening in the current energy system.	与此同时，至少在今后的几十年里， 唱主角的都是碳氢化合物。可以是 石油，可以是天然气，可以是煤炭，都是我们的 研究对象。我不想把这个演讲拖得 太长，这里介绍一下目前的 能源体系的发展。
86 percent of the energy we consume are hydrocarbons. That means 86 percent of the stuff we're consuming are probably processed plants and amoebas and the rest of the stuff. And there's a role in here for conservation. There's a role in here for alternative stuff, but we've also got to get that other portion right.	我们消耗的能源的百分之八十六 是碳氢化合物。这意味着我们消耗物质的百分之八十六 是植物、变形虫和其他这类物质 演化而来的。那么这里就有一个 环境保护的角色。还有一个 可替代物质的角色，同时我们必须 把其余的部分也做好。
How we deal with that other portion is our bridge to the future. And as we think of this bridge to the future, one of the things you should ponder is: we are leaving about two-thirds of the oil today inside those wells. So we're spending an enormous amount of money and leaving most of the energy down there. Which, of course, requires more energy to go out and get energy. The ratios become idiotic by the time you get to ethanol. It may even be a one-to-one ratio on the energy input and the energy output. That is a stupid way of managing this system.	我们如何对待其余的那个比例是 我们通向未来的桥梁。当我们把这看作是通向未来的 桥梁时，有一件事必须认真思考： 现在我们把大约三分之二的石油留在 那些油井中。这样我们花费巨大的 开支，把大部分的能源留在 地下。当然，这样做需要更多的能源 去获取其他能源。这个比值会变得 很愚蠢，如果你取得的是乙醇的话。 那样做，产出的能源与消耗的能源之比 几乎就是一比一。这是在用一种很傻的做法 管理这个体系。
Last point, last graph. One of the things that we've got to do is to stabilize oil prices. This is what oil prices look like, OK?	最后一点，最后一张图表，我们必须做的 事情之一是稳定石油价格。 这就是石油价格的走势，对不对？
This is a very bad system because what happens is your hurdle rate gets set very low. People come up with really smart ideas for solar panels, or for wind, or for something else, and then guess what?	这是一个很糟糕的体系，因为你的 最低资本预期回收率设置的很低。人们想出了 很好的太阳能板的设计，或者是利用 风能或其他的方式，猜猜会怎么样？
The oil price goes through the floor. That company goes out of business, and then you can bring the oil price back up.	石油价格跌破了最低点。那些公司 只好破产，然后石油价格又 重新上涨了。
So if I had one closing and modest suggestion, let's set a stable oil price in Europe and the United States. How do you do that? Well, let's put a tax on oil that is a non-revenue tax, and it basically says for the next 20 years, the price of oil will be -- whatever you want, 35 bucks, 40 bucks. If the OPEC price falls below that, we tax it. If the OPEC price goes above that, the tax goes away.	因此，我最后要提出一个温和的建议， 让我们在欧洲和美国设定一个稳定的 石油价格。怎么能做到呢？那么，我们可以在 油价上加一项税——非收入税， 基本理念是说在最近的20年中，石油价格 将是——随便假设一个数字，35美元也好， 40美元也罢。如果欧佩克的油价低于这个价格，我们 就开征这项税。如果油价高于这个价格，这项税 就取消。
What does that do for entrepreneurs? What does it do for companies? It tells people, if you can produce energy for less than 35 bucks a barrel, or less than 40 bucks a barrel, or less than 50 bucks a barrel -- let's debate it -- you will have a business. But let's not put people through this cycle where it doesn't pay to research because your company will go out of business as OPEC drives alternatives and keeps bioenergy from happening. Thank you.	这样做对企业家有什么好处呢？对公司企业 有什么好处呢？这可以告诉人们，如果你能以 低于35美元或40美元的价格生产能源， 或低于50美元一桶的价格生产能源， 我们可以竞争——你就能赢得生意。 我们不能让人们进入这样 一种循环，企业付不出研发费用 而破产，这就等于让欧佩克操纵了石油替代品的研发 使生物能源无法取得成功。 谢谢。
Who are we?	我们是谁?
That is the big question.	这是一个很大的问题。
And essentially we are just an upright-walking, big-brained, super-intelligent ape.	但是从本质上讲，我们只不过是能够直立行走、拥有一个相对较大的大脑、 智力超群的猿猴罢了。
This could be us.	这个可能就是我们（若干年前）。
We belong to the family called the Hominidae.	我们属于"人科"这个家族。
We are the species called Homo sapiens sapiens, and it's important to remember that, in terms of our place in the world today and our future on planet Earth.	我们这个物种的学名叫做"智人" 记住这个很重要。 至于我们今天在这个世界上所属的位置， 以及我们的未来，
We are one species of about five and a half thousand mammalian species that exist on planet Earth today.	我们是 今天生存在这个星球上的 大约五千五百种哺乳动物种的一种。
And that's just a tiny fraction of all species that have ever lived on the planet in past times.	而这只是曾经生活在地球上的 所有物种的一小部分。
We're one species out of approximately, or let's say, at least 16 upright-walking apes that have existed over the past six to eight million years.	我们是在过去的6-8百万年中 生存过的16种能够直立行走 的猿类动物之一。
But as far as we know, we're the only upright-walking ape that exists on planet Earth today, except for the bonobos.	但就目前所知，我们是唯一至今还存活在地球上的 直立行走的猿类，除了倭黑猩猩以外。
And it's important to remember that, because the bonobos are so human, and they share 99 percent of their genes with us.	记住这一点是很重要的, 因为倭黑猩猩和人类如此相像, 他们99%的基因都与我们相同,
And we share our origins with a handful of the living great apes.	同时我们跟有限的几种现存猿类有着共同的祖先。
It's important to remember that we evolved.	要记住我们由猿进化而来，
Now, I know that's a dirty word for some people, but we evolved from common ancestors with the gorillas, the chimpanzee and also the bonobos.	我知道这对有些人来说是不敬的说法, 但我们的确与大猩猩、黑猩猩和倭黑猩猩 有着同样的祖先。
We have a common past, and we have a common future.	我们有同样的过去，和同样的未来,
And it is important to remember that all of these great apes have come on as long and as interesting evolutionary journey as we ourselves have today.	而且要记住的是所有的猿类 都有着同样有趣的进化旅程, 就像我们人类一样。
And it's this journey that is of such interest to humanity, and it's this journey that has been the focus of the past three generations of my family, as we've been in East Africa looking for the fossil remains of our ancestors to try and piece together our evolutionary past.	正是这个旅程对人类意义重大, 也正是这个旅程成为了我们家祖上三代以来 一直关注的焦点。 我们一直在东非寻找我们祖先进化的化石遗存， 试图把这些碎片拼起来，重现人类的进化过程。
And this is how we look for them.	这就是我们寻找的过程.
A group of dedicated young men and women walk very slowly out across vast areas of Africa, looking for small fragments of bone, fossil bone, that may be on the surface.	一群非常敬业的年轻人慢慢的行走在 广袤的非洲大地, 在搜寻露出地表的骨头和化石碎片。
And that's an example of what we may do as we walk across the landscape in Northern Kenya, looking for fossils.	这仅是一个例子， 是我们在肯尼亚北部搜寻化石的一个例子。
I doubt many of you in the audience can see the fossil that's in this picture, but if you look very carefully, there is a jaw, a lower jaw, of a 4.1-million-year-old upright-walking ape as it was found at Lake Turkana on the west side.	我怀疑许多观众看不清楚 图片里的化石。 但如果你仔细看，这里有一个颚骨--下颚--， 属于一个四百一十万年前直立行走的猿类， 是在Turkana lake的西边找到的。
It's extremely time-consuming, labor-intensive and it is something that is going to involve a lot more people, to begin to piece together our past.	这是非常耗时，耗力的一项大工程, 而且即将有越来越多的人参与其中， 重构我们人类的进化史。
We still really haven't got a very complete picture of it.	至今为止我们还没有一个完整的框架。
When we find a fossil, we mark it.	当我们发现一片化石后，我们对它进行标记。
Today, we've got great technology: we have GPS.	今天我们有了先进的技术，我们有全球定位系统GPS.
We mark it with a GPS fix, and we also take a digital photograph of the specimen, so we could essentially put it back on the surface, exactly where we found it.	我们用GPS的位置信息对它进行标记， 同时我们也对化石进行数码拍照， 以便于我们能够把它放回原来的位置， 就是我们找到它时的确切位置。
And we can bring all this information into big GIS packages, today.	如今我们可以把这些信息放到地理资源系统中进行分析。
When we then find something very important, like the bones of a human ancestor, we begin to excavate it extremely carefully and slowly, using dental picks and fine paintbrushes.	当我们发现了重要的信息， 例如人类祖先的骨骼化石, 我们就开始非常小心翼翼的对它进行挖掘， 使用牙签和很细的毛刷。
And all the sediment is then put through these screens, and where we go again through it very carefully, looking for small bone fragments, and it's then washed.	然后所有的遗骸都要经过这个筛子进行过滤， 然后还要进行再次过滤， 寻找小骨头碎片，之后再进行清洗。
And these things are so exciting. They are so often the only, or the very first time that anybody has ever seen the remains.	做这件事经常让我很兴奋。这些是唯一的, 或者是第一次跟人类的会面。
And here's a very special moment, when my mother and myself were digging up some remains of human ancestors.	这就是一个非常特殊的时刻，使我跟母亲一起 挖掘出猿人的骨骼残骸的时刻,
And it is one of the most special things to ever do with your mother.	这是你跟母亲一起做的 最特别的事情之一。
Not many people can say that.	并不是很多人都能够这么说。
But now, let me take you back to Africa, two million years ago.	现在，让我把你们带回到200万年前的非洲.
I'd just like to point out, if you look at the map of Africa, it does actually look like a hominid skull in its shape.	我想指出的是，你要是仔细看看非洲的地图， 它的形状实际上跟人类的头颅十分相似。
Now we're going to go to the East African and the Rift Valley.	下面我们来到非洲东部去看看东非大裂谷.
It essentially runs up from the Gulf of Aden, or runs down to Lake Malawi.	它实际上开始于亚丁湾， 一直延伸到马拉维湖，
And the Rift Valley is a depression.	裂谷是一条深陷区域，
It's a basin, and rivers flow down from the highlands into the basin, carrying sediment, preserving the bones of animals that lived there.	这是一个盆地，河流从高地流进盆地, 带着很多沉积物，其中夹杂了曾经生活在那一带的动物骨骼残骸。
If you want to become a fossil, you actually need to die somewhere where your bones will be rapidly buried.	如果你想成为一个化石，那就要死在那些 骨骼会被迅速埋藏的地方。
You then hope that the earth moves in such a way as to bring the bones back up to the surface.	然后你就盼望着地球的运动 能将这些骨骼重新带回到地球表面。
And then you hope that one of us lot will walk around and find small pieces of you.	然后你还要期望我们其中的一员 将会找到你的化石碎片。
OK, so it is absolutely surprising that we know as much as we do know today about our ancestors, because it's incredibly difficult, A, for these things to become -- to be -- preserved, and secondly, for them to have been brought back up to the surface.	所以说，这是一件让人自豪的事情，我们对我们的祖先 能了解到我们现在所了解的程度， 因为这是及其困难的, 首先，这些东西要能被埋藏和保留， 其次，它们要能够重新露出地表面。
And we really have only spent 50 years looking for these remains, and begin to actually piece together our evolutionary story.	我们其实用了50年去寻找这些骨骼碎片, 并开始拼凑我们进化的故事 .
So, let's go to Lake Turkana, which is one such lake basin in the very north of our country, Kenya.	让我们看看turkana湖，它是一个湖盆地 在我的国家肯尼亚的最北部。
And if you look north here, there's a big river that flows into the lake that's been carrying sediment and preserving the remains of the animals that lived there.	如果你看北边，有一条很大的河流流入湖中， 河流携带了含有动物遗迹的沉积物 那些曾经生活在那一带的动物。
Fossil sites run up and down both lengths of that lake basin, which represents some 20,000 square miles.	化石可能在湖盆的任何位置被发现， 也就是大约2万平方英里的区域。
That's a huge job that we've got on our hands.	这是我们碰到的一项大工程。
Two million years ago at Lake Turkana, Homo erectus, one of our human ancestors, actually lived in this region.	2百万年前在Turkana湖, 直立猿人，我们人类祖先的一支， 就曾经生活在这个区域。
You can see some of the major fossil sites that we've been working in the north. But, essentially, two million years ago, Homo erectus, up in the far right corner, lived alongside three other species of human ancestor.	你可以看到我们在北部涉足过的 一些主要的化石遗址。但事实上两百万年前 右上角的直立猿人, 和其余的三个种类的人类祖先都曾居住在这一带。
And here is a skull of a Homo erectus, which I just pulled off the shelf there.	这里是一个直立猿人的颅骨， 我刚从架子上拿下来的。
But it is not to say that being a single species on planet Earth is the norm.	但并不是说地球上只能存在单一物种，
In fact, if you go back in time, it is the norm that there are multiple species of hominids or of human ancestors that coexist at any one time.	事实上，你要是回到从前, 多种人科动物并存， 或者拥有共同祖先的人科动物并存是很常见的事情。
Where did these things come from?	他们来自何方？
That's what we're still trying to find answers to, and it is important to realize that there is diversity in all different species, and our ancestors are no exception.	这正是我们试图找到答案的问题。 而且意识到物种的多样性是非常重要的， 我们的祖先也不例外。
Here's some reconstructions of some of the fossils that have been found from Lake Turkana.	这里是一些化石的重建结果， 它们是在Turkana湖被发现的。
But I was very lucky to have been brought up in Kenya, essentially accompanying my parents to Lake Turkana in search of human remains.	我很幸运在肯尼亚长大， 能陪伴父母亲去Turkana湖 去寻找祖先的足迹。
And we were able to dig up, when we got old enough, fossils such as this, a slender-snouted crocodile.	当我们长到一定年纪的时候，我们曾经挖出了 像长嘴鳄这样的化石，
And we dug up giant tortoises, and elephants and things like that.	我们还挖出了巨星龟，大象骨骸这样类似的东西。
But when I was 12, as I was in this picture, a very exciting expedition was in place on the west side, when they found essentially the skeleton of this Homo erectus.	这张图片是我12岁时拍的, 那时候在湖盆西部产生了一个让人兴奋的发现， 他们发现了直立猿人的骨骼.
I could relate to this Homo erectus skeleton very well, because I was the same age that he was when he died.	我对这个骨架记忆犹新， 因为他死去时的年纪跟我那时候的年纪正好一样。
And I imagined him to be tall, dark-skinned.	我把他想象成一个个头很高的黑小伙。
His brothers certainly were able to run long distances chasing prey, probably sweating heavily as they did so.	他和兄弟们一定跑了很长的路 去追赶猎物，而汗流浃背。
He was very able to use stones effectively as tools.	他会用石头当做工具，
And this individual himself, this one that I'm holding up here, actually had a bad back. He'd probably had an injury as a child.	这个个体，就是我手上拿着的这个， 事实上他的背不是很好--很可能在孩童时受过伤.
He had a scoliosis and therefore must have been looked after quite carefully by other female, and probably much smaller, members of his family group, to have got to where he did in life, age 12.	他由于脊柱侧弯因此必须一直 要女性悉心照料 他可能是家里比较小的成员，年仅12岁.
Unfortunately for him, he fell into a swamp and couldn't get out.	不幸的是，他掉进沼泽里 再也没能出来.
Essentially, his bones were rapidly buried and beautifully preserved.	实际上，他的骨头很快被埋没， 并至今保存完好。
And he remained there until 1.6 million years later, when this very famous fossil hunter, Kamoya Kimeu, walked along a small hillside and found that small piece of his skull lying on the surface amongst the pebbles, recognized it as being hominid.	他一直躺在那 直到160万年后 这位非常有名的化石猎人,Kamoya Kimeu, 沿着一个小山坡 发现一小块头颅骨骼露在表面 躺在鹅卵石中间，他意识到这是祖先的头骨骼.
It's actually this little piece up here on the top.	其实就是最上面的这一小块头颅骨骼。
Well, an excavation was begun immediately, and more and more little bits of skull started to be extracted from the sediment.	挖掘工程立即开始了, 越来越多的头颅碎片 从沉淀中提取.
And what was so fun about it was this: the skull pieces got closer and closer to the roots of the tree, and fairly recently the tree had grown up, but it had found that the skull had captured nice water in the hillside, and so it had decided to grow its roots in and around this, holding it in place and preventing it from washing away down the slope.	这是一项多么有趣的事啊-- 头颅骨向树边移动, 这棵树是在离现在很近的时候长成大树的， 但他发现头骨碎片已经在山坡上找到了水流。 于是它决定长出自己的根须，将骨头围住， 防止它们被水流冲走。
We began to find limb bones; we found finger bones, the bones of the pelvis, vertebrae, ribs, the collar bones, things that had never, ever been seen before in Homo erectus.	我们陆续发现了尺骨，指骨, 骨盆、脊椎、肋骨、锁骨, 这些对于直立猿类来说都是史无前例的发现。
It was truly exciting.	实在太令人兴奋了.
He had a body very similar to our own, and he was on the threshold of becoming human.	他的骨骼和我们非常相似, 而且他代表的就是即将进化成人的一类。
Well, shortly afterwards, members of his species started to move northwards out of Africa, and you start to see fossils of Homo erectus in Georgia, China and also in parts of Indonesia.	不过，没过多久，这类物种 就开始向比非洲更北的方向迁移， 他们的化石就逐渐在 在格鲁吉亚、中国，以及印度尼西亚的一些地方被发现。
So, Homo erectus was the first human ancestor to leave Africa and begin its spread across the globe.	所以，直立猿类是第一个离开非洲的人类祖先， 之后他们就开始遍布全球了。
Some exciting finds, again, as I mentioned, from Dmanisi, in the Republic of Georgia.	有一些令人振奋的发现，我前面提到过， 是在格鲁吉亚共和国的Dmanisi 发现的。
But also, surprising finds recently announced from the Island of Flores in Indonesia, where a group of these human ancestors have been isolated, and have become dwarfed, and they're only about a meter in height.	最近又有一些让人惊喜的发现 发生在印尼弗洛雷斯岛上， 有一群人类祖先被隔离在了岛上， 他们逐渐变成了侏儒，只有大约一米高。
But they lived only 18,000 years ago, and that is truly extraordinary to think about.	他们生存在距今只有一万八千年前, 这是真正值得我们去研究的问题。
Just to put this in terms of generations, because people do find it hard to think of time, Homo erectus left Africa 90,000 generations ago.	如果用"代"来计算的话， 因为这样人们理解起来比较方便， 直立猿人是在9万代之前离开非洲的。
We evolved essentially from an African stock.	我们人类的血统基本上都是从非洲承传而来的。
Again, at about 200,000 years as a fully-fledged us.	我们人类大概经历了20万年进化成今天的样子，
And we only left Africa about 70,000 years ago.	而我们离开非洲只有7万年。
And until 30,000 years ago, at least three upright-walking apes shared the planet Earth.	而且直到3万年前，至少有三个能够直立行走的类人猿 同时生活在这个星球上。
The question now is, well, who are we?	现在的问题是：我们到底是谁？
We're certainly a polluting, wasteful, aggressive species, with a few nice things thrown in, perhaps.	毋庸置疑，我们是环境污染，浪费资源，强取豪夺的物种， 偶尔做一些好事情。
For the most part, we're not particularly pleasant at all.	大多是时候我们的行为不令人愉悦。
We have a much larger brain than our ape ancestors.	我们比先人有着体积更大的大脑。
Is this a good evolutionary adaptation, or is it going to lead us to being the shortest-lived hominid species on planet Earth?	这究竟是一个有益的进化过程，还是我们向着 地球上最短寿灵长动物这个方向发展的必经之路？
And what is it that really makes us us?	是什么使我们成为我们？
I think it's our collective intelligence.	我想是我们集体智慧的结晶。
It's our ability to write things down, our language and our consciousness.	使我们记录历史的本领， 以及我们的语言和意识。
From very primitive beginnings, with a very crude tool kit of stones, we now have a very advanced tool kit, and our tool use has really reached unprecedented levels: we've got buggies to Mars; we've mapped the human genome; and recently even created synthetic life, thanks to Craig Venter.	从最原始的开端，使用着最简陋的石器工具， 到现在及其发达的工具，人类对工具的使用 以经达到了一个前所未有的水平。 我们已经有能力登陆火星，我们还能绘制人类基因组， 最近我们由具备了重组生命的本领，这归功于Craig Venter.
And we've also managed to communicate with people all over the world, from extraordinary places.	我们已经能够跟世界上任何角落的人们 进行沟通，不管从什么偏远的地方。
Even from within an excavation in northern Kenya, we can talk to people about what we're doing.	即便是在肯尼亚北部的山洞里。 我们能够告诉外界我们在做什么。
As Al Gore so clearly has reminded us, we have reached extraordinary numbers of people on this planet.	像阿尔戈尔提醒我们的那样， 在这个地球上生存的人口 已经非常庞大了。
Human ancestors really only survive on planet Earth, if you look at the fossil record, for about, on average, a million years at a time.	人类祖先只能在地球上生存, 如果你看这些化石记录, 他们每次只能平均存活一百万年,
We've only been around for the past 200,000 years as a species, yet we've reached a population of more than six and a half billion people.	作为一个物种，我们人类存在了仅仅20万年， 而我们的数量已经达到了65亿多。
And last year, our population grew by 80 million.	去年，我们的人口增加了8千万。
I mean, these are extraordinary numbers.	我的意思是，这个数字是相当庞大的。
You can see here, again, taken from Al Gore's book.	这里，还是引用阿尔.戈尔的书，
But what's happened is our technology has removed the checks and balances on our population growth.	我们的技术 已经对人口增长失去了制衡的作用。
We have to control our numbers, and I think this is as important as anything else that's being done in the world today.	我们必须控制这个数字，我认为 这跟我们所从事的其他任何事情是同等重要的。
But we have to control our numbers, because we can't really hold it together as a species.	我们必须控制我们的人口数量 因为人太多了这个物种的生存就会有问题。
My father so appropriately put it, that "We are certainly the only animal that makes conscious choices that are bad for our survival as a species."	我的父亲说得很对， 我们人类是唯一的能够有意识的做出 不利于自身生存的选择的动物，
Can we hold it together?	我们能够很好的生存下去吗？
It's important to remember that we all evolved in Africa.	有一点很重要：我们都是从非洲大陆上进化而来的，
We all have an African origin.	我们都有一个非洲血统，
We have a common past and we share a common future.	我们有着同样的过去和共同的未来.
Evolutionarily speaking, we're just a blip.	对进化而言，我们只是昙花一现，
We're sitting on the edge of a precipice, and we have the tools and the technology at our hands to communicate what needs to be done to hold it together today.	我们坐在悬崖边缘， 我们拥有最好的工具和科技 去帮我们实现让我们这个物种 继续生存下去的目标。
We could tell every single human being out there, if we really wanted to.	如果我们想的话，我们当然可以告诉每一个人，
But will we do that, or will we just let nature take its course?	但我们会这样做吗？还是听从大自然的选择？
Well, to end on a very positive note, I think evolutionarily speaking, this is probably a fairly good thing, in the end.	最后，我们乐观面对, 从进化的角度而言, 这到头来也许是一件不错的事情，
I'll leave it at that, thank you very much.	让它顺其自然吧,非常感谢.
It is said that the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence, and I believe this is true, especially when I hear President Obama often talk about the Korean education system as a benchmark of success.	常言道，别人家的东西 总比自己的好。 我信这话， 尤其是当我听到奧巴馬总统 常常大谈韩国教育系统， 视其为成功典范。
Well, I can tell you that, in the rigid structure and highly competitive nature of the Korean school system, also known as pressure cooker, not everyone can do well in that environment.	嗯，告诉你吧， 韩国学校系统，人称高压锅 机制僵化， 竞争激烈， 那种环境不会每个人都受得了的。
While many people responded in different ways about our education system, my response to the high-pressure environment was making bows with pieces of wood found near my apartment building.	虽然大家对 我们的教育系统反应不一， 我对这个高压环境的应对办法是 用我公寓楼旁边捡到的 木片做弓 。
Why bows?	为什么做弓呢？
I'm not quite sure.	我不清楚。
Perhaps, in the face of constant pressure, my caveman instinct of survival has connected with the bows.	也许，面对持续的压力， 我这山顶洞人的生存本能 自然就联系到弓箭了。
If you think about it, the bow has really helped drive human survival since prehistoric times.	设想一下， 弓自史前时代起就真的帮助推进了 人类生存。
The area within three kilometers of my home used to be a mulberry forest during the Joseon dynasty, where silkworms were fed with mulberry leaves.	朝鲜王朝统治时期， 我家三公里范围内 都是桑树林， 桑叶用来养蚕。
In order to raise the historical awareness of this fact, the government has planted mulberry trees.	为了提高大家对这一历史事实的认识， 政府栽种了很多桑树。
The seeds from these trees also have spread by birds here and there nearby the soundproof walls of the city expressway that has been built around the 1988 Olympics.	鸟把桑树籽 带到本市高速公路隔音墙附近 一带，到场都是， 高速公路隔音墙是1988 年奥运会时建的。
The area near these walls, which nobody bothers to pay attention to, had been left free from major intervention, and this is where I first found my treasures.	这些墙附近, 无人管理， 树木任意滋长。 我就是在那儿第一次找到了宝藏。
As I fell deeper into bow making, I began to search far and beyond my neighborhood.	当我对制弓越来越着迷时， 我开始走出我的小区去找材料。
When I went on school field trips, family vacations, or simply on my way home from extracurricular classes, I wandered around wooded areas and gathered tree branches with the tools that I sneaked inside my school bag.	当我去学校户外活动时， 同家人度假时，或仅仅是在我从课外班 回家的路上时， 我在树丛附近徘徊， 用我偷偷地塞进书包的工具 收集树枝。
And they would be somethings like saws, knives, sickles and axes that I covered up with a piece of towel.	工具有锯、刀、 镰刀和斧头， 我在树枝上盖了一条毛巾。
I would bring the branches home, riding buses and subways, barely holding them in my hands.	我把树枝带回家， 又是公共汽车， 又是地铁的， 我勉强抱着走。
And I did not bring the tools here to Long Beach.	我没有把工具带到长滩来。
Airport security.	机场安检。
In the privacy of my room, covered in sawdust, I would saw, trim and polish wood all night long until a bow took shape.	我自己的房间里，满地木屑， 我独自在里面整夜地又锯，又刨光， 终于做出了弓的模样。
One day, I was changing the shape of a bamboo piece and ended up setting the place on fire.	一天，我正在改一片竹子的形状 结果把竹片给烧着了。
Where? The rooftop of my apartment building, a place where 96 families call home.	在哪儿烧的？在我公寓大厦屋顶， 里面住着96户 家庭。
A customer from a department store across from my building called 911, and I ran downstairs to tell my mom with half of my hair burned.	大楼对面的一家百货公司的顾客 打了 911， 我跑下楼去告诉我妈妈， 当时我头发一半都烧焦了。
I want to take this opportunity to tell my mom, in the audience today: Mom, I was really sorry, and I will be more careful with open fire from now on.	我妈妈现在就坐在观众席上， 我想籍此机会，告诉妈妈： 妈妈，当时我真的很抱歉， 并且，以后再着火我一定更小心。
My mother had to do a lot of explaining, telling people that her son did not commit a premeditated arson.	当年，我母亲被迫一再解释， 一再跟人家讲，她儿子没犯 故意纵火罪。
I also researched extensively on bows around the world.	我当时还广泛研究世界各地的弓，
In that process, I tried to combine the different bows from across time and places to create the most effective bow.	其间，我尽力融汇贯通， 取古今韩外各弓之长， 致力于做出世界上最高效的弓。
I also worked with many different types of wood, such as maple, yew and mulberry, and did many shooting experiments in the wooded area near the urban expressway that I mentioned before.	我试了各种木材， 如枫树、 红豆杉和桑树， 还到市内高速公路旁边的树丛里 做了很多次射箭实验， 就是我之前提到的树丛。
The most effective bow for me would be like this.	我认为：最有效的弓 应该是这样的。
One: Curved tips can maximize the springiness when you draw and shoot the arrow.	第一：弯度适宜的箭尖，这样，拉弓射箭时， 能最大限度地弹射出去。
Two: Belly is drawn inward for higher draw weight, which means more power.	第二： 箭弦内拉，让射手能拉满弓， 这样射出的力量更大。
Three: Sinew used in the outer layer of the limb for maximum tension storage.	第三：在弓的外层使用动物的腱， 以期存储更大拉力。
And four: Horn used to store energy in compression.	第四： 用角来存储受压的能量。
After fixing, breaking, redesigning, mending, bending and amending, my ideal bow began to take shape, and when it was finally done, it looked like this.	经过固定，拆卸，再设计， 修补、 弯曲和修改， 我理想的弓初具雏形， 终于做成时， 弓是这样的。
I was so proud of myself for inventing a perfect bow on my own.	独自发明了如此完美的一把弓， 我洋洋自得。
This is a picture of Korean traditional bows taken from a museum, and see how my bow resembles them.	这是韩国传统弓的图片， 是在博物馆照的， 请看一下我的弓有多像这些弓。
Thanks to my ancestors for robbing me of my invention.	感谢列祖列宗， 抢了我的发明。
Through bowmaking, I came in contact with part of my heritage.	通过做弓， 我有幸接触到我先祖的文化传统。
Learning the information that has accumulated over time and reading the message left by my ancestors were better than any consolation therapy or piece of advice any living adults could give me.	学习经年累月积累下来的知识 和读取祖先遗留下来的信息 胜过任何的心理疗法， 强过任何一位在世成年人所能给我的忠告。
You see, I searched far and wide, but never bothered to look close and near.	你看，我当初上下求索， 偏偏没在身边找。
From this realization, I began to take interest in Korean history, which had never inspired me before.	认识到这一点之后， 我开始对韩国历史产生了兴趣， 之前我对韩史都毫无感觉的。
In the end, the grass is often greener on my side of the fence, although we don't realize it.	总之，原来自己家篱巴里的草 才更绿呢， 尽管我们不意识到这一点。
Now, I am going to show you how my bow works.	现在，请看我的弓怎么样。
And let's see how this one works.	各位请看：
This is a bamboo bow, with 45-pound draw weights.	这是竹弓， 拉力45 磅。
A bow may function in a simple mechanism, but in order to make a good bow, a great amount of sensitivity is required.	也许，弓机制功能简单， 但为了做把好弓， 正所谓：差之毫厘，失之千里。
You need to console and communicate with the wood material.	您要安抚联络 这些木头材料。
Each fiber in the wood has its own reason and function for being, and only through cooperation and harmony among them comes a great bow.	木头里的每一丝纤维 都有其存在原因和作用， 只有其通力合作 才能成就一把好弓。
I may be an [odd] student with unconventional interests, but I hope I am making a contribution by sharing my story with all of you.	我可能是个 [怪] 学生 爱好特异， 但我希望通过分享我的故事 为这世界尽我一份绵薄之力。
My ideal world is a place where no one is left behind, where everyone is needed exactly where they are, like the fibers and the tendons in a bow, a place where the strong is flexible and the vulnerable is resilient.	我的理想世界里 没有落后生， 人人各司其职， 仿佛是弓的纤维和筋， 刚中有柔， 柔中带刚。
The bow resembles me, and I resemble the bow.	这弓就仿佛是我， 而我仿佛是这把弓。
Now, I am shooting a part of myself to you.	现在，我正把我的一部分向你射去。
No, better yet, a part of my mind has just been shot over to your mind.	不对，说的再美妙一些，我心灵的一部分 刚刚向你的心灵射去。
Did it strike you?	射中你了吗？
Thank you.	谢谢。
Now, have any of y'all ever looked up this word?	好，你们中有谁查过这个单词？
You know, in a dictionary? Yeah, that's what I thought.	用字典？是的，我想也就这个样子。
How about this word?	这个单词呢？
Here, I'll show it to you.	看看解释：
Lexicography: the practice of compiling dictionaries.	Lexicography:编纂字典的活动。
Notice -- we're very specific -- that word "compile."	注意，这是专用的说法，定义里用"编纂"这个词。
The dictionary is not carved out of a piece of granite, out of a lump of rock. It's made up of lots of little bits.	字典并不是从一大块岩石里凿出的花岗岩， 而是由很多的小块小块合起来的。
It's little discrete -- that's spelled D-I-S-C-R-E-T-E -- bits.	分离的， 英语里边的串法是 D-I-S-C-R-E-T-E——小块
And those bits are words.	我们这里说的小块就是指单词了。
Now one of the perks of being a lexicographer -- besides getting to come to TED -- is that you get to say really fun words, like lexicographical.	作为字典编纂者的好处—— 除了有机会来 TED演讲以外，就是可以说很有趣的单词， 例如，lexicographical,字典编纂学。
Lexicographical has this great pattern: it's called a double dactyl. And just by saying double dactyl, I've sent the geek needle all the way into the red.	这个词有一种很棒的押韵， "扬抑抑格"。只要说到"扬抑抑格"， 古怪指数就可以飙升到红色警戒。
But "lexicographical" is the same pattern as "higgledy-piggledy."	其实， lexicographical与 "higgledy-piggledy"有一样的押韵。
Right? It's a fun word to say, and I get to say it a lot.	对吧？这个词单发音就很好玩， 我常常说它。
Now, one of the non-perks of being a lexicographer is that people don't usually have a kind of warm, fuzzy, snuggly image of the dictionary.	同时，作为字典编纂者，一个让人郁闷的地方 是字典从来没有给人留下一个温暖，舒适的印象。
Right? Nobody hugs their dictionaries.	对吧？没有人会拥抱他们的字典。
But what people really often think about the dictionary is, they think more like this.	但是，其实人们通常对字典的看法是这样的。
Just to let you know, I do not have a lexicographical whistle.	告诉你一件事情，我没有什么纂字哨子，
But people think that my job is to let the good words make that difficult left-hand turn into the dictionary, and keep the bad words out.	尽管大家认为我的工作是让所谓的好词 做一个有难度的左转拐入字典， 而把所谓的坏词挡于门外。
But the thing is, I don't want to be a traffic cop.	问题是，我不想当交通警察。
For one thing, I just do not do uniforms.	首先，我不喜欢制服。
And for another, deciding what words are good and what words are bad is actually not very easy.	而且，决定谁是好词 谁是坏词其实一点也不容易，
And it's not very fun. And when parts of your job are not easy or fun, you kind of look for an excuse not to do them.	还不好玩。如果你的工作中有这么一部分既不容易又不好玩， 你就会千方百计去回避它。
So if I had to think of some kind of occupation as a metaphor for my work, I would much rather be a fisherman.	由此，如果要找一种工作 来比喻我在干的活，我宁可当一个渔夫。
I want to throw my big net into the deep, blue ocean of English and see what marvelous creatures I can drag up from the bottom.	我要在英语这个深蓝的海洋里撒上我的大网， 看可以从海里捕到什么珍异的海产。
But why do people want me to direct traffic, when I would much rather go fishing?	可是现实中，为什么人们期望我去当交警而不是渔夫呢？
Well, I blame the Queen.	这，是英女王的错。
Why do I blame the Queen?	为什么我要责怪她？
Well, first of all, I blame the Queen because it's funny.	首先，责怪女王比较有趣，
But secondly, I blame the Queen because dictionaries have really not changed.	另外的原因是， 自维多利亚女王以来，字典并没有什么变化。
Our idea of what a dictionary is has not changed since her reign.	我们对字典的理解自维多利亚女王统治时期以来没有改变过。
The only thing that Queen Victoria would not be amused by in modern dictionaries is our inclusion of the F-word, which has happened in American dictionaries since 1965.	在现代字典里，唯一不会让女王欢喜的是 对脏话的引入， 自1965年起出现在美国字典里。
So, there's this guy, right? Victorian era.	看看这位先生，维多利亚时期的，
James Murray, first editor of the Oxford English Dictionary.	詹姆斯 穆雷，牛津英语字典的第一位编辑。
I do not have that hat. I wish I had that hat.	我没有像他那样的帽子，我多希望有这样的一顶帽子。
So he's really responsible for a lot of what we consider modern in dictionaries today.	就是他 把我们至今还认为是现代的元素放在字典里。
When a guy who looks like that, in that hat, is the face of modernity, you have a problem.	如果把一个如此打扮的人，看那帽子， 作为现代的代表，那你们就有麻烦了。
And so, James Murray could get a job on any dictionary today.	詹姆斯•穆雷即使活在今天也还是能为任何一本字典担任编纂工作，
There'd be virtually no learning curve.	而无需学习曲线。
And of course, a few of us are saying: okay, computers!	当然，你们中的有些人会说，计算机！
Computers! What about computers?	计算机！计算机是新东西吧？
The thing about computers is, I love computers.	不要误会，我喜欢计算机，
I mean, I'm a huge geek, I love computers.	我超级喜欢计算机，
I would go on a hunger strike before I let them take away Google Book Search from me.	如果有人不让我用谷歌的图书搜索，我一定会绝食抗议。
But computers don't do much else other than speed up the process of compiling dictionaries.	但是，在字典编纂工作中，计算机能起到的作用， 就是加快了编纂的工作进程，仅此而已。
They don't change the end result.	计算机没有改变最终结果。
Because what a dictionary is, is it's Victorian design merged with a little bit of modern propulsion.	因为字典就是 维多利亚时代的设计和现代推动力的整合。
It's steampunk. What we have is an electric velocipede.	没什么，就是一台电动的脚踏车。
You know, we have Victorian design with an engine on it. That's all!	给维多利亚时代的设计加上一个引擎，仅此而已！
The design has not changed.	设计上没有任何变化。
And OK, what about online dictionaries, right?	好，那线上字典呢？
Online dictionaries must be different.	线上字典不一样了吧。
This is the Oxford English Dictionary Online, one of the best online dictionaries.	这是牛津线上英语字典，目前最好的线上字典之一。
This is my favorite word, by the way.	看一下一个我喜欢的词，
Erinaceous: pertaining to the hedgehog family; of the nature of a hedgehog.	Erinaceous:属于刺猬的；刺猬的本性。
Very useful word. So, look at that.	非常有用的词。看看这里，
Online dictionaries right now are paper thrown up on a screen.	线上字典目前就是把纸质版本放到屏幕前。
This is flat. Look how many links there are in the actual entry: two!	还是很平面。看看这个单词有几个链接？两个！
Right? Those little buttons, I had them all expanded except for the date chart.	对吧？那些小按键 ， 除了日期纪录，我把他们都展开了。
So there's not very much going on here.	没什么东西，
There's not a lot of clickiness.	没什么可以点击。
And in fact, online dictionaries replicate almost all the problems of print, except for searchability.	事实上， 线上字典继承了 印刷品几乎所有的毛病，除了搜索功能。
And when you improve searchability, you actually take away the one advantage of print, which is serendipity.	而当搜索功能改善了， 你同时也把印刷品的优势拿走，那就是能不经意间有新的发现的能力。
Serendipity is when you find things you weren't looking for, because finding what you are looking for is so damned difficult.	你能发现一些并不是你要找的东西， 其实是因为找到你想找的东西是如此困难。
So -- -- now, when you think about this, what we have here is a ham butt problem.	所以，，现在，当你想到这些， 我们面对的问题其实是火腿屁股的问题。
Does everyone know the ham butt problem?	有人知道火腿屁股的问题吗？
Woman's making a ham for a big, family dinner.	有个女人正在弄火腿，给一个大家庭做晚餐。
She goes to cut the butt off the ham and throw it away, and she looks at this piece of ham and she's like, "This is a perfectly good piece of ham. Why am I throwing this away?"	她正要把火腿根部切去扔掉， 看着那片火腿，她想， "这其实是块好肉，为什么我要把它扔掉呢？"
She thought, "Well, my mom always did this."	她继续想，"可是我妈都是这么做的"，
So she calls up mom, and she says, "Mom, why'd you cut the butt off the ham, when you're making a ham?"	于是她打电话给她妈妈，问， "妈妈，为什么你做火腿的时候要把火腿屁股切掉？"
She says, "I don't know, my mom always did it!"	她妈妈说，"我不知道，我妈一直都这么做的！"
So they call grandma, and grandma says, "My pan was too small!"	于是她们又打电话给外婆，外婆说， "我的锅太小了！"
So, it's not that we have good words and bad words.	所以，这不是因为有好词和坏词的存在，
We have a pan that's too small!	只是我们的锅太小了！
You know, that ham butt is delicious! There's no reason to throw it away.	要知道，其实火腿屁股味道可好了！没理由把它扔掉。
The bad words -- see, when people think about a place and they don't find a place on the map, they think, "This map sucks!"	所谓的坏词——当人们想去一个地方， 却不能在地图上找到这个地方， 他们就认为，"这地图一点用也没有！"
When they find a nightspot or a bar, and it's not in the guidebook, they're like, "Ooh, this place must be cool! It's not in the guidebook."	当人们发现一个旅游指南上没有的夜店或酒吧， 他们又认为，" 旅游指南上没有的，这地方一定很酷！"
When they find a word that's not in the dictionary, they think, "This must be a bad word." Why? It's more likely to be a bad dictionary.	而当人们发现一个字典上没有的单词，他们就觉得 "这个一定是坏词"。为什么呢？这其实更像是一本坏字典的问题。
Why are you blaming the ham for being too big for the pan?	为什么要责怪火腿比锅大呢？
So, you can't get a smaller ham.	你不能找到小一点的火腿，
The English language is as big as it is.	因为英语本身就很大。
So, if you have a ham butt problem, and you're thinking about the ham butt problem, the conclusion that it leads you to is inexorable and counterintuitive: paper is the enemy of words.	所以如果你知道火腿屁股这事儿， 而你又正在考虑这个问题， 它引向的结论是决绝又有违直觉的： 纸张是文字的敌人。
How can this be? I mean, I love books. I really love books.	怎么可能？我爱书，非常的爱书。
Some of my best friends are books.	我的一些最好的朋友就是书。
But the book is not the best shape for the dictionary.	但是书本并不是字典最好的载体。
Now they're going to think "Oh, boy.	有人会疑惑"不要吧，
People are going to take away my beautiful, paper dictionaries?"	人们不是要把优美的纸质字典拿走吧？"
No. There will still be paper dictionaries.	不是。纸质的字典还是会存在的。
When we had cars -- when cars became the dominant mode of transportation, we didn't round up all the horses and shoot them.	当我们有了车，当车成了主要的交通工具， 就不见得要把所有的马匹都毙了。
You know, there're still going to be paper dictionaries, but it's not going to be the dominant dictionary.	纸质的字典还是会存在的， 只是不会再是主要的载体了。
The book-shaped dictionary is not going to be the only shape dictionaries come in. And it's not going to be the prototype for the shapes dictionaries come in.	书本形式的字典不将是唯一形式的字典， 而且不会是 将来字典的原型。
So, think about it this way: if you've got an artificial constraint, artificial constraints lead to arbitrary distinctions and a skewed worldview.	设想一下，如果你有人为的制约， 这种制约就会引致 一个武断的区分和一个倾斜的世界观。
What if biologists could only study animals that made people go, "Aww." Right?	如果生物学家只研究 人们喜欢的动物，对吧，
What if we made aesthetic judgments about animals, and only the ones we thought were cute were the ones that we could study?	如果我们以审美角度来判断动物， 只研究我们觉得可爱的动物，这会怎样？
We'd know a whole lot about charismatic megafauna, and not very much about much else.	我们就只能了解那些有魅力的大群落， 对其它的物种就不太了解了。
And I think this is a problem.	我认为这是一个问题。
I think we should study all the words, because when you think about words, you can make beautiful expressions from very humble parts.	我们应该研究所有的词， 因为使用词可以创造出美丽的表达， 即使是从非常卑下的部分。
Lexicography is really more about material science.	字典编纂学是研究物质的科学。
We are studying the tolerances of the materials that you use to build the structure of your expression: your speeches and your writing. And then, often people say to me, "Well, OK, how do I know that this word is real?"	我们在研究不同物料的偏差， 当你去架构你的表达的时候： 你的演说和写作。于是人们常常对我说， "那好，我怎么知道这词是真实存在的？"
They think, "OK, if we think words are the tools that we use to build the expressions of our thoughts, how can you say that screwdrivers are better than hammers?	他们认为，"好，如果词语是 我们用于表达思想的工具， 那你怎么可以说起子比锤子要好？
How can you say that a sledgehammer is better than a ball-peen hammer?"	你怎么可以说这种锤子比那种锤子好？
They're just the right tools for the job.	它们只是合适的工具而已。"
And so people say to me, "How do I know if a word is real?"	由此，人们对我说，"我怎么知道一个词是真正的词？"
You know, anybody who's read a children's book knows that love makes things real.	任何读过儿童读物的人 都知道，爱让事物变真实。
If you love a word, use it. That makes it real.	如果你爱一个词，用它。这样子，它就成真了。
Being in the dictionary is an artificial distinction.	词放在字典里只是人工的区分，
It doesn't make a word any more real than any other way.	这并没有让一个词变得比其它词更真实。
If you love a word, it becomes real.	如果你爱一个词，它才会变真实。
So if we're not worrying about directing traffic, if we've transcended paper, if we are worrying less about control and more about description, then we can think of the English language as being this beautiful mobile.	如果我们不需要花心思在指挥交通上， 如果我们超越了纸张，如果我们少担心 控制而更关注表述， 那英语就成为 一个美丽的活物了。
And any time one of those little parts of the mobile changes, is touched, any time you touch a word, you use it in a new context, you give it a new connotation, you verb it, you make the mobile move.	当其中的一个小组件变化了， 被触动了 ——任何时候你接触到一个单词， 你把它用到新的内容中，你赋予它新的涵义， 你就让它活起来了——让它移动了。
You didn't break it. It's just in a new position, and that new position can be just as beautiful.	你没有破坏它，只是让它移到一个新的地方， 这新的地方也可以是一样美丽。
Now, if you're no longer a traffic cop -- the problem with being a traffic cop is there can only be so many traffic cops in any one intersection, or the cars get confused. Right?	现在，你不再是交警—— 交警管理交通的问题是 要么你得在每个十字路口都安排交警， 要么就让车辆犯糊涂。对吧？
But if your goal is no longer to direct the traffic, but maybe to count the cars that go by, then more eyeballs are better.	然而，如果你的目标不再是指挥交通， 而是去数来往的车辆，那越多双眼睛越好。
You can ask for help!	你可以找人帮忙！
If you ask for help, you get more done. And we really need help.	越多人帮忙，你可以完成更多的活。我们真的很需要帮忙。
Library of Congress: 17 million books, of which half are in English.	国会图书馆有一千七百万本藏书， 一半是英语，
If only one out of every 10 of those books had a word that's not in the dictionary in it, that would be equivalent to more than two unabridged dictionaries.	假设其中每十本书 有一个词不在字典里， 那就相当于超过两本非缩略版字典的词汇量。
And I find an un-dictionaried word -- a word like "un-dictionaried," for example -- in almost every book I read. What about newspapers?	我发现没收录到字典里边的词—— 以一个像 "un-dictionaried" 那样的未收录词为例—— 在我读过的几乎每一本书里都有。还有报纸呢？
Newspaper archive goes back to 1759, 58.1 million newspaper pages. If only one in 100 of those pages had an un-dictionaried word on it, it would be an entire other OED.	报纸藏品从1759年开始， 共有五千八百一十万个报纸页面。只要每100页 报纸有一个没有收录的单词， 那就相当于一整本 OED了，
That's 500,000 more words. So that's a lot.	超过五十万词，那是很大的词汇量。
And I'm not even talking about magazines. I'm not talking about blogs -- and I find more new words on BoingBoing in a given week than I do Newsweek or Time.	我还没有说到杂志，博客—— 一周内，我在 BoingBoing发现的新词 比新闻周刊或时代杂志还多。
There's a lot going on there.	那里正在创造出很多的新词。
And I'm not even talking about polysemy, which is the greedy habit some words have of taking more than one meaning for themselves.	这还没说到一词多义， 有些词有贪心的习惯， 自己有好几个意思。
So if you think of the word "set," a set can be a badger's burrow, a set can be one of the pleats in an Elizabethan ruff, and there's one numbered definition in the OED.	当你想到一个词"set"—"set"可以指獾的穴， 也可以指伊利沙白时代衣领上的褶—— 在 OED 里就有好几个定义，
The OED has 33 different numbered definitions for set.	在 OED 里"set"共33种定义。
Tiny, little word, 33 numbered definitions.	小小的一个单词，33种定义。
One of them is just labeled "miscellaneous technical senses."	其中一个只是说"不同的技术时态。"
Do you know what that says to me?	你知道这对我来说意味着什么？
That says to me, it was Friday afternoon and somebody wanted to go down the pub.	那就是说周五下午某人想去酒吧。
That's a lexicographical cop out, to say, "miscellaneous technical senses."	用字典编纂学的术语来说， 就是 "不同的技术时态。"
So, we have all these words, and we really need help!	有那么多词，我们真的很需要帮助！
And the thing is, we could ask for help -- asking for help's not that hard.	事实上，我们可以寻求帮助—— 要求帮助并不困难。
I mean, lexicography is not rocket science.	字典编纂不是开发火箭。
See, I just gave you a lot of words and a lot of numbers, and this is more of a visual explanation.	看，我刚给了你很多词和很多数字， 这里是个更形象的解释。
If we think of the dictionary as being the map of the English language, these bright spots are what we know about, and the dark spots are where we are in the dark.	我们可以把字典当作代表英语的地图， 这些亮点是我们已知的， 黑点是未知的。
If that was the map of all the words in American English, we don't know very much.	如果这个地图指美国英语的所有单词，我们还有很多不知道。
And we don't even know the shape of the language.	我们连整个语言的轮廓也不知道。
If this was the dictionary -- if this was the map of American English -- look, we have a kind of lumpy idea of Florida, but there's no California!	如果这个是字典，美国英语地图—— 看，我们有个大致的佛罗里达州了， 可是还没有加州！
We're missing California from American English.	连加州都还没有，
We just don't know enough, and we don't even know that we're missing California.	我们知道的确实很不够，我们甚至连缺了加州这个事情也不知道。
We don't even see that there's a gap on the map.	我们连地图里有个空白也不知道。
So again, lexicography is not rocket science.	再强调，字典编纂不是开发火箭。
But even if it were, rocket science is being done by dedicated amateurs these days. You know?	即使是火箭开发科学， 当今也有热诚的业余爱好者参与其中了。是吧？
It can't be that hard to find some words!	发现词语不可能有那么难！
So, enough scientists in other disciplines are really asking people to help, and they're doing a good job of it.	足够多的科学家在其它领域 正寻求大家帮忙，而且大伙也干的不错。
For instance, there's eBird, where amateur birdwatchers can upload information about their bird sightings.	例如，有一种电子鸟，业余观鸟爱好者 可以把自己的观察结果上传，
And then, ornithologists can go and help track populations, migrations, etc.	之后鸟类学家可以从中 追踪数量，迁徙情况等。
And there's this guy, Mike Oates. Mike Oates lives in the U.K.	有个叫 迈克 奥特斯的人，他住在英国，
He's a director of an electroplating company.	他是一家电镀公司的总监。
He's found more than 140 comets.	他发现了超过140个彗星。
He's found so many comets, they named a comet after him.	他发现了如此之多的彗星，有一颗彗星就以他命名。
It's kind of out past Mars. It's a hike.	那些彗星比火星还远，是一个长途旅行。
I don't think he's getting his picture taken there anytime soon.	我不认为他拍过什么照片。
But he found 140 comets without a telescope.	他发现的140颗彗星，并没有用望远镜，
He downloaded data from the NASA SOHO satellite, and that's how he found them.	而是从 NASA SOHO卫星下载数据 分析出来的。
If we can find comets without a telescope, shouldn't we be able to find words?	如果我们可以不用望远镜就能发现彗星， 为什么我们就不能发现单词呢？
Now, y'all know where I'm going with this.	现在你明白我的立场了。
Because I'm going to the Internet, which is where everybody goes.	我要去互联网，就像大伙那样。
And the Internet is great for collecting words, because the Internet's full of collectors.	互联网非常合适搜集单词， 因为互联网上有很多搜集者。
And this is a little-known technological fact about the Internet, but the Internet is actually made up of words and enthusiasm.	这是一个关于互联网的不为人知的技术事实， 互联网实际上是由单词和热情组成的。
And words and enthusiasm actually happen to be the recipe for lexicography. Isn't that great?	而单词和热情正好是 字典编纂的膳料。那不是很好吗？
So there are a lot of really good word-collecting sites out there right now, but the problem with some of them is that they're not scientific enough.	现在已经有很多单词搜集网站了， 只是它们中有些还不够科学，
They show the word, but they don't show any context.	有些显示了词，没有显示上下文，
Where did it come from? Who said it?	词从哪里来？谁说的？
What newspaper was it in? What book?	源自哪张报纸？哪本书？
Because a word is like an archaeological artifact.	因为一个词就像一个考古学产物，
If you don't know the provenance or the source of the artifact, it's not science, it's a pretty thing to look at.	如果你不知道起源或源头， 这就不够科学——这是应该去考究的。
So a word without its source is like a cut flower.	一个没有来源的词就像一朵被剪下来的花。
You know, it's pretty to look at for a while, but then it dies.	看一会还可以，不久就蔫了。
It dies too fast.	蔫得太快了。
So, this whole time I've been saying, "The dictionary, the dictionary, the dictionary, the dictionary."	我一直在说， "字典，字典， 字典，字典。"
Not "a dictionary," or "dictionaries." And that's because, well, people use the dictionary to stand for the whole language.	而不是"一本字典"，或"很多字典"，这是因为， 人们用字典去代表整个语言。
They use it synecdochically.	这是一种借代的说法——
And one of the problems of knowing a word like "synecdochically" is that you really want an excuse to say "synecdochically."	知道"synecdochically"会引起的问题是 你真的很想找个理由去说synecdochically
This whole talk has just been an excuse to get me to the point where I could say "synecdochically" to all of you.	这整个演讲也就是个借口，为了能让我可以有机会 跟你们说 synecdochically这个词。
So I'm really sorry. But when you use a part of something -- like the dictionary is a part of the language, or a flag stands for the United States, it's a symbol of the country -- then you're using it synecdochically.	真对不起。但如果你用一样事物的一部分， 例如字典是语言的一部分， 或者用国旗代表美国作为一个国家的象征—— 那样你在用借代。
But the thing is, we could make the dictionary the whole language.	不过，我们可以让字典成为语言的全部，
If we get a bigger pan, then we can put all the words in.	如果我们有个大一点的锅，那我们就可以把所有的单词都放里边了，
We can put in all the meanings.	还可以把所有的单词解释都放里边。
Doesn't everyone want more meaning in their lives?	每个人不都想人生更有意义吗（英语里，意义和单词解释是同一个单词）？
And we can make the dictionary not just be a symbol of the language -- we can make it be the whole language.	那样，我们就可以让字典不仅仅是语言的象征， 我们就可以让字典涵盖整个语言。
You see, what I'm really hoping for is that my son, who turns seven this month -- I want him to barely remember that this is the form factor that dictionaries used to come in.	你看，我真希望到我儿子的时候—— 这个月他就满7岁了——我想他只记得 这是过去的字典的形式，
This is what dictionaries used to look like.	这是过去的字典的样子。
I want him to think of this kind of dictionary as an eight-track tape.	我想他把这种字典当成8轨录音带类似的东西，
It's a format that died because it wasn't useful enough.	是种已经过时的形式，
It wasn't really what people needed.	不再适合人们的需求。
And the thing is, if we can put in all the words, no longer have that artificial distinction between good and bad, we can really describe the language like scientists.	如果我们可以涵盖所有单词， 不再人为的区分好词坏词， 我们就可以像科学家那样的描述语言，
We can leave the aesthetic judgments to the writers and the speakers.	我们可以把审美判断留给作家和演讲者。
If we can do that, then I can spend all my time fishing, and I don't have to be a traffic cop anymore.	如果我们可以做到这点，那我就可以把我所有的时间花在捕鱼上， 用不着再当交警。
Thank you very much for your kind attention.	谢谢，感谢您的关注。
I thought I would talk a little bit about how nature makes materials.	我想我应该谈一谈自然是如何制造材料的。
I brought along with me an abalone shell.	我带来了一个鲍鱼壳。
This abalone shell is a biocomposite material that's 98 percent by mass calcium carbonate and two percent by mass protein.	这个鲍鱼壳是种生物复合材料， 其中百分之98是碳酸钙 百分之二是蛋白质。
Yet, it's 3,000 times tougher than its geological counterpart.	然而，它比地质学中相对应的 物质要坚硬三千倍。
And a lot of people might use structures like abalone shells, like chalk.	许多人或许用过类似鲍鱼壳这样的结构， 如粉笔。
I've been fascinated by how nature makes materials, and there's a lot of sequence to how they do such an exquisite job.	如今我为自然创造材料的方法所深深着迷， 做到这样的精细活 要经过一系列的过程。
Part of it is that these materials are macroscopic in structure, but they're formed at the nanoscale.	这些材料在结构上 肉眼可见， 但是它们是由纳米级材料组成的。
They're formed at the nanoscale, and they use proteins that are coded by the genetic level that allow them to build these really exquisite structures.	它们是由纳米级材料组成的， 它们使用由基因层次控制的蛋白质， 这使得它们能构建非常精致的结构。
So something I think is very fascinating is what if you could give life to non-living structures, like batteries and like solar cells?	因此，我觉得非常让人着迷的是 如果能赋予非生物结构 以生命会发生什么， 比如电池，比如太阳能电池？
What if they had some of the same capabilities that an abalone shell did, in terms of being able to build really exquisite structures at room temperature and room pressure, using non-toxic chemicals and adding no toxic materials back into the environment?	如果它们能有一些鲍鱼壳所拥有的 同样的能力会怎样， 能够 在常温常压下 用无毒的化学物质， 不添加对环境有害的材料 构建精致的结构。
So that's the vision that I've been thinking about.	这就是我曾想到过的愿景。
And so what if you could grow a battery in a Petri dish?	那么，如果你能在皮氏培养皿中培养出电池将会怎样？
Or, what if you could give genetic information to a battery so that it could actually become better as a function of time, and do so in an environmentally friendly way?	或者说，如果你能把基因信息赋予一个电池， 以便确实能在一定时间内 变得更好， 并以一种环境友好的方式进行时会怎样？
And so, going back to this abalone shell, besides being nano-structured, one thing that's fascinating, is when a male and a female abalone get together, they pass on the genetic information that says, "This is how to build an exquisite material.	回到这个鲍鱼壳， 除了存在纳米结构之外， 令人着迷的一件事是， 当一只雄性鲍鱼和磁性鲍鱼相遇， 他们相互传递基因信息 信息中表明，"这是如何构建一个精巧的材料。
Here's how to do it at room temperature and pressure, using non-toxic materials."	这就是如何在常温常压下，用无毒材料 做到这些的。"
Same with diatoms, which are shown right here, which are glasseous structures.	与硅藻相同，有着光泽，有着玻璃状结构。
Every time the diatoms replicate, they give the genetic information that says, "Here's how to build glass in the ocean that's perfectly nano-structured.	每次硅藻复制时， 它们给出基因信息，其中表明， "这就是如何在海洋中 有完美纳米结构的玻璃。
And you can do it the same, over and over again."	你能同样进行，并不断重复。"
So what if you could do the same thing with a solar cell or a battery?	那么如果你能用太阳能电池或 电池做同样的事会怎样？
I like to say my favorite biomaterial is my four year-old.	我想说我最喜欢的生物材料是我四岁的孩子。
But anyone who's ever had, or knows, small children knows they're incredibly complex organisms.	但任何曾有过或了解小孩的人 都知道他们是多么复杂的生物体。
And so if you wanted to convince them to do something they don't want to do, it's very difficult.	因此，说服他们去 做他们不想做的事，非常困难。
So when we think about future technologies, we actually think of using bacteria and virus, simple organisms.	当我们思考未来科技时， 我们会想到细菌和病毒的应用， 简单的有机体。
Can you convince them to work with a new toolbox, so that they can build a structure that will be important to me?	你能让它们使用新的工具箱吗， 以使它们能构建一种 对我来说很重要的结构么？
Also, when we think about future technologies, we start with the beginning of Earth.	同样地，我们对未来科技进行思考。 我们从地球最初开始，
Basically, it took a billion years to have life on Earth.	基本上，用了十亿年 地球上才开始出现生命。
And very rapidly, they became multi-cellular, they could replicate, they could use photosynthesis as a way of getting their energy source.	接着很快地就进化成了多细胞生命， 它们能够复制自己，能用光合作用 作为获取能源的一种方式。
But it wasn't until about 500 million years ago -- during the Cambrian geologic time period -- that organisms in the ocean started making hard materials.	但知道500万年前 -- 在寒武纪地质时代 -- 海洋中的生物开始制造坚硬的材料。
Before that, they were all soft, fluffy structures.	之前它们制造的都是柔软蓬松的结构。
And it was during this time that there was increased calcium and iron and silicon in the environment, and organisms learned how to make hard materials.	正是在这一时期内 环境中的钙、铁 硅的含量增加了。 生物学会了如何制作坚硬的材料。
And so that's what I would like be able to do -- convince biology to work with the rest of the periodic table.	所以我希望能够 -- 确定生物 能与周期表中的其他元素工作。
Now if you look at biology, there's many structures like DNA and antibodies and proteins and ribosomes that you've heard about that are already nano-structured.	现在，如果查看一下生物， 有许多类似DNA、抗体、 蛋白质和核糖体这样你曾听说过的结构， 这些结构以及是纳米结构了。
So nature already gives us really exquisite structures on the nanoscale.	因此自然已经给予了我们 纳米级的非常精巧的结构。
What if we could harness them and convince them to not be an antibody that does something like HIV?	如果我们控制它们 让他们不要变成像艾滋病病毒 这样的抗体将会怎样？
But what if we could convince them to build a solar cell for us?	但如果我们能让它们为我们 建造太阳能电池将会怎样？
So here are some examples: these are some natural shells.	这儿有些例子：这是些天然的贝壳。
There are natural biological materials.	它们是天然的生物材料。
The abalone shell here -- and if you fracture it, you can look at the fact that it's nano-structured.	这个是鲍鱼壳 -- 如果折断它， 会看到它是纳米结构。
There's diatoms made out of SIO2, and they're magnetotactic bacteria that make small, single-domain magnets used for navigation.	硅藻是由二氧化硅组成， 他们是趋磁细菌， 它们用微小的单极磁体导航。
What all these have in common is these materials are structured at the nanoscale, and they have a DNA sequence that codes for a protein sequence that gives them the blueprint to be able to build these really wonderful structures.	这些事物的共同之处是 这些材料的结构都是纳米级的， 它们拥有一个DNA序列 这是一个蛋白质序列编码， 这给了它们一个蓝图 使它们能够构建这些奇妙的结构。
Now, going back to the abalone shell, the abalone makes this shell by having these proteins.	现在，回到鲍鱼壳， 鲍鱼用这些蛋白质做成壳。
These proteins are very negatively charged.	这些蛋白质带有负电荷。
And they can pull calcium out of the environment, put down a layer of calcium and then carbonate, calcium and carbonate.	它们能吸收环境中的钙， 放上一层钙，然后是一层碳酸盐，再一层钙一层碳酸盐。
It has the chemical sequences of amino acids, which says, "This is how to build the structure.	这是氨基酸的化学序列 其中表明，"这就是如何构建这种结构。
Here's the DNA sequence, here's the protein sequence in order to do it."	这是要做到这点的DNA序列， 蛋白质序列。"
And so an interesting idea is, what if you could take any material that you wanted, or any element on the periodic table, and find its corresponding DNA sequence, then code it for a corresponding protein sequence to build a structure, but not build an abalone shell -- build something that, through nature, it has never had the opportunity to work with yet.	一个有意思的想法是，如果你能选择任何材料或是 周期表中的任何元素， 依照DNA序列， 然后依照蛋白质序列 建立结构，但不是构建一个鲍鱼壳，将会怎样 -- 通过自然构建某种事物， 这是从未有机会进行的尝试。
And so here's the periodic table.	这是周期表。
And I absolutely love the periodic table.	我非常喜欢周期表。
Every year for the incoming freshman class at MIT, I have a periodic table made that says, "Welcome to MIT. Now you're in your element."	在MIT，大一新生来的第一课， 我都会提供一个周期表， "欢迎来到MIT。现在你进入你的元素了。"
And you flip it over, and it's the amino acids with the PH at which they have different charges.	把它翻过来，是带有PH值的氨基酸 不同的PH值下带有不同的电荷。
And so I give this out to thousands of people.	我把这个发给了数以千计的人。
And I know it says MIT, and this is Caltech, but I have a couple extra if people want it.	我知道这上面写了MIT，写了加州理工， 但如果有人要的话我还有些额外的。
And I was really fortunate to have President Obama visit my lab this year on his visit to MIT, and I really wanted to give him a periodic table.	我非常荣幸的是， 奥巴马总统今年访问MIT时 造访了我的实验室， 我很想给他一张周期表。
So I stayed up at night, and I talked to my husband, "How do I give President Obama a periodic table?	我熬夜思索，对我的丈夫说 "我怎么才能给奥巴马总统一张周期表呢？
What if he says, 'Oh, I already have one,' or, 'I've already memorized it'?"	如果他说，'哦，我已经有一张了' 或是'我已经背下来了'该怎么办？"
And so he came to visit my lab and looked around -- it was a great visit.	因此他到访我的实验室 四处浏览 -- 这是个很棒的访问。
And then afterward, I said, "Sir, I want to give you the periodic table in case you're ever in a bind and need to calculate molecular weight."	后来，我说， "先生，我想给你张周期表 以备你陷入困境，需要计算分子量时使用。"
And I thought molecular weight sounded much less nerdy than molar mass.	我觉得分子量听起来不像摩尔质量 那么呆板。
And so he looked at it, and he said, "Thank you. I'll look at it periodically."	他看了看它， 说到， "谢谢。我会定期看看它的。"
And later in a lecture that he gave on clean energy, he pulled it out and said, "And people at MIT, they give out periodic tables."	之后在一次关于清洁能源的演讲中， 他把它拿出来，说道， "在MIT时有人给了我周期表。"
So basically what I didn't tell you is that about 500 million years ago, organisms starter making materials, but it took them about 50 million years to get good at it.	所以基本上我没有告诉各位的是 大约五亿年前，生物就开始制造材料， 大概花了五千万年变得擅长于此。
It took them about 50 million years to learn how to perfect how to make that abalone shell.	花了五千万年时间 学会了完美地制造出鲍鱼壳。
And that's a hard sell to a graduate student.	这对研究生来说很难理解
"I have this great project -- 50 million years."	"我拥有这个伟大的项目 -- 五千万年。"
And so we had to develop a way of trying to do this more rapidly.	因此我们不得不找出一种 更快速的方式来完成这些。
And so we use a virus that's a non-toxic virus called M13 bacteriophage that's job is to infect bacteria.	因此我们使用了一种病毒， 一种名为M13噬菌体的无毒病毒， 用它去感染细菌。
Well it has a simple DNA structure that you can go in and cut and paste additional DNA sequences into it.	它有简单的DNA结构， 可以剪切、粘贴 附加的DNA序列到其中。
And by doing that, it allows the virus to express random protein sequences.	这样做后，它允许病毒 表达随机的蛋白质序列。
And this is pretty easy biotechnology.	这是很简单的生物技术。
And you could basically do this a billion times.	可以这么做个十亿次。
And so you can go in and have a billion different viruses that are all genetically identical, but they differ from each other based on their tips, on one sequence that codes for one protein.	这样就能得到十亿个不同的病毒 它们具有相同的遗传基因， 但它们可以基于它们的标签相互区分， 为一个蛋白质 编码的序列。
Now if you take all billion viruses, and you can put them in one drop of liquid, you can force them to interact with anything you want on the periodic table.	现在，收集起所有这些病毒， 可以把它们放入一滴液体中， 可以强制它们与周期表中的任何元素交互。
And through a process of selection evolution, you can pull one out of a billion that does something that you'd like it to do, like grow a battery or grow a solar cell.	通过一个选择性进化的过程， 可以从十亿中选出一个符合你期望的病毒， 比如长出一个电池或是一个太阳能电池。
So basically, viruses can't replicate themselves; they need a host.	所以，基本上，病毒不能复制自身，它们需要宿主。
Once you find that one out of a billion, you infect it into a bacteria, and you make millions and billions of copies of that particular sequence.	一旦有亿万中的一个 感染了一个细菌， 就会产生不计其数的那种 特定序列的复制体。
And so the other thing that's beautiful about biology is that biology gives you really exquisite structures with nice link scales.	生物学的另一个美妙之处是 生物学可以以一种良好的比例 呈现精致的结构。
And these viruses are long and skinny, and we can get them to express the ability to grow something like semiconductors or materials for batteries.	这些病毒长且瘦， 我们能让它们表达生长出一些事物的能力 比如半导体 或是制作电池的材料。
Now this is a high-powered battery that we grew in my lab.	这是我们在实验室培育的高能电池。
We engineered a virus to pick up carbon nanotubes.	我们让病毒收集碳纳米管。
So one part of the virus grabs a carbon nanotube.	病毒的一部分抓住一个碳纳米管。
The other part of the virus has a sequence that can grow an electrode material for a battery.	另一部分拥有一个 能长出电池的电极材料的序列。
And then it wires itself to the current collector.	然后它把自己缠绕成集电器。
And so through a process of selection evolution, we went from being able to have a virus that made a crummy battery to a virus that made a good battery to a virus that made a record-breaking, high-powered battery that's all made at room temperature, basically at the bench top.	然后通过一个选择性进化的过程， 我们就从一个制造低劣电池的病毒 得到了一个制造良好电池的病毒 一个制造破纪录的高能电池的病毒 这些都是在常温下，实验台上进行的。
And that battery went to the White House for a press conference.	那个电池去白宫参加过一次记者招待会。
I brought it here.	我把它带到这里来了。
You can see it in this case -- that's lighting this LED.	各位能在这个盒子里看到它 -- 亮着的是个LED等。
Now if we could scale this, you could actually use it to run your Prius, which is my dream -- to be able to drive a virus-powered car.	如果我们能放大这个， 就能用它来 驱动普瑞斯车， 这是我的梦想 -- 能驾驶一辆病毒驱动的汽车。
But it's basically -- you can pull one out of a billion.	但基本上 -- 能从十亿中选出一个。
You can make lots of amplifications to it.	能把它放大许多倍。
Basically, you make an amplification in the lab, and then you get it to self-assemble into a structure like a battery.	基本上，能在实验室进行放大。 然后让它自组装 成一个如电池这样的结构。
We're able to do this also with catalysis.	我们也能通过催化作用做到这些。
This is the example of photocatalytic splitting of water.	这是光触媒 分离水的例子。
And what we've been able to do is engineer a virus to basically take dye-absorbing molecules and line them up on the surface of the virus so it acts as an antenna, and you get an energy transfer across the virus.	我们已经能做到的是 设计一个病毒，能吸收染色分子 并把染色分子在病毒的表面排成一列， 就像个触须， 然后就能让能量转移穿过这些病毒了。
And then we give it a second gene to grow an inorganic material that can be used to split water into oxygen and hydrogen that can be used for clean fuels.	接着我们给它第二段基因 以生长出无机材料 这能用于把水分离成 氢气和氧气， 氢气和氧气能用作清洁燃料。
And I brought an example with me of that today.	今天我带来了一个样本。
My students promised me it would work.	我的学生对我保证说它能运作。
These are virus-assembled nanowires.	这些是由病毒组装的纳米线。
When you shine light on them, you can see them bubbling.	当用光照向它们时，能看到他们在冒着泡泡。
In this case, you're seeing oxygen bubbles come out.	这样的情况表明，所看到的是氧气正在冒出。
And basically, by controlling the genes, you can control multiple materials to improve your device performance.	基本上通过控制基因 就能够控制多种材料来改进设备性能。
The last example are solar cells.	最后一个例子是太阳能电池。
You can also do this with solar cells.	也可以这样制造太阳能电池。
We've been able to engineer viruses to pick up carbon nanotubes and then grow titanium dioxide around them -- and use as a way of getting electrons through the device.	我们已经能够设计病毒 来收集碳纳米管 然后再外面附着上二氧化钛 -- 并作为通过设备收集电子的一种方式。
And what we've found is through genetic engineering, we can actually increase the efficiencies of these solar cells to record numbers for these types of dye-sensitized systems.	我们的发现是，通过基因工程 我们能真正的增加 这些太阳能电池的效率 为各种类型的 染色敏化系统记录数字。
And I brought one of those as well that you can play around with outside afterward.	我也带了一个到这儿来 稍后各位可以在外面摆弄一下。
So this is a virus-based solar cell.	这是个基于病毒的太阳能电池。
Through evolution and selection, we took it from an eight percent efficiency solar cell to an 11 percent efficiency solar cell.	通过进化和选择， 我们把这个太阳能电池由效能百分之八 变为了百分之十一。
So I hope that I've convinced you that there's a lot of great, interesting things to be learned about how nature makes materials -- and taking it the next step to see if you can force, or whether you can take advantage of how nature makes materials, to make things that nature hasn't yet dreamed of making.	我希望我已经让各位相信 关于如何让自然制作材料 有许多美好的、有趣的事情要学习-- 更进一步 看看能否你能够推行， 或是利用自然制作材料的方式 来制作一些自然还未被要求制作的东西。
Thank you.	谢谢。
About 15 years ago, I went to visit a friend in Hong Kong.	大约15年前，我去香港拜访一位朋友。
And at the time I was very superstitious.	那个时候我很迷信。
So, upon landing -- this was still at the old Hong Kong airport that's Kai Tak, when it was smack in the middle of the city -- I thought, "If I see something good, I'm going to have a great time here in my two weeks. And if I see something negative, I'm going to be miserable, indeed."	所以，在飞机降落之前--那还是在香港的旧机场， 那是Kai Tak,它当时正好在市中心-- 我当时想：如果我现在看见一些好的东西，那么我将会在香港的这2周过的十分快乐。 如果我看见一些不好的东西，那么我将会过的十分悲痛沮丧。
So the plane landed in between the buildings and got to a full stop in front of this little billboard.	之后飞机降落在一些楼的中间， 并停在了这个小广告牌的前面。
And I actually went to see some of the design companies in Hong Kong in my stay there.	笑声（WINNER：胜利者） 实际上，我当时是去参观一些香港的 设计公司。
And it turned out that -- I just went to see, you know, what they are doing in Hong Kong.	但结果却是-- 我本来只是想去看看他们在香港正在做什么设计项目。
But I actually walked away with a great job offer.	但是我却轻易的获得了一个很好的工作机会。
And I flew back to Austria, packed my bags, and, another week later, I was again on my way to Hong Kong still superstitions and thinking, "Well, if that 'Winner' billboard is still up, I'm going to have a good time working here.	之后我飞回奥地利并收拾我的行装。 一个星期后，我又踏上了飞往香港的旅程， 我仍然迷信的想：好的，如果那块"Winner"(胜利）的广告牌还竖在那里的话， 我将会在这里工作的很开心。
But if it's gone, it's going to be really miserable and stressful."	笑声 但是如果它不在那里的话，我在香港的时间将会很不幸，很痛苦。
So it turned out that not only was the billboard still up but they had put this one right next to it.	但结果是，不仅那块广告牌还竖在那里， 有人还将这块牌子放在了它的旁边。
On the other hand, it also taught me where superstition gets me because I really had a terrible time in Hong Kong.	笑声 另一方面，它也让我明白了迷信不可信， 因为之后我在香港真的过很糟糕。
However, I did have a number of real moments of happiness in my life -- of, you know, I think what the conference brochure refers to as "moments that take your breath away."	笑声 但是，在生活中我确实有过一些真正的快乐时刻-- 就像你们知道的，这个会议宣传册上所提到的， 那种带走你呼吸的美好时刻。
And since I'm a big list maker, I actually listed them all.	由于我是一个喜欢列表单的人，所以我将他们都列举出来了。
Now, you don't have to go through the trouble of reading them and I won't read them for you.	笑声 现在，大家并不需要担心去阅读这些条款， 我也不会在这里将他们一一念出来。
I know that it's incredibly boring to hear about other people's happinesses.	我知道听别人的欢乐幸福故事是一件令人难以置信乏味的事情。
What I did do, though is, I actually looked at them from a design standpoint and just eliminated all the ones that had nothing to do with design.	笑声 但是，我要做的就是从设计的角度去看待他们 并且将一切与设计无关的条款都移除。
And, very surprisingly, over half of them had, actually, something to do with design.	之后我非常惊奇地发现，实际上有多过一半的条款都与设计有些关系。
So there are, of course, two different possibilities.	所以，这有两种可能性。
There's one from a consumer's point of view -- where I was happy while experiencing design.	一种是从消费者的角度看-- --即当我体验设计时的快乐。
And I'll just give you one example. I had gotten my first Walkman.	我可以举一个例子。我得到我的第一个随声听，
This is 1983.	那是在1983年。
My brother had this great Yamaha motorcycle that he was willing to borrow to me freely.	这是我兄弟当时的雅马哈摩托车， 并且他很乐意随时将它借给我。
And The Police's "Synchronicity" cassette had just been released and there was no helmet law in my hometown of Bregenz.	这是那时候"The Police"发行的名为"同步"的 专辑磁带。 在我的家乡Bregenz没有规定骑摩托车要带头盔的法律。
So you could drive up into the mountains freely blasting The Police on the new Sony Walkman.	所以你可以骑到山上， 自由大声地用新索尼随身听播放Police的音乐。
And I remember it as a true moment of happiness.	笑声 我记得那是我真正的快乐时刻。
You know, of course, they are related to this combination of at least two of them being, you know, design objects.	当然，这种快乐与他们中的至少这两种东西的同时存在的的结合有关， 即两种有设计的产品。
And, you know, there's a scale of happiness when you talk about in design but the motorcycle incident would definitely be, you know, situated somewhere here -- right in there between Delight and Bliss.	并且你知道，当我们谈论设计的时候是有一个关于快乐的衡量标准比例的， 但是对于摩托车这种小事将会 位于愉快与极乐之间。
Now, there is the other part, from a designer's standpoint -- if you're happy while actually doing it.	现在，还有另外一部分，从设计师的角度看-- 当你做设计的时候，你是否快乐。
And one way to see how happy designers are when they're designing could be to look at the authors' photos on the back of their monographs?	也许有一种方法可以看到设计师们在从事设计的时候到底有多高兴-- 看他们专著封底的作者照片。
So, according to this, the Australians and the Japanese as well as the Mexicans are very happy.	笑声 所以，据此，奥地利以及日本 还有墨西哥的设计师们 都非常快乐。
While, somewhat, the Spaniards ...	笑声 然而，西班牙的设计师们有点，
and, I think, particularly, the Swiss , don't seem to be doing all that well.	我看，尤其是瑞士的设计师们， 笑声 并不是那么快乐。
Last November, a museum opened in Tokyo called The Mori Museum, in a skyscraper, up on the 56th floor.	笑声 去年十一月，有一个博物馆在东京开放，名为Mori博物馆， 它在一栋摩天楼的第56层。
And their inaugural exhibit was called "Happiness."	他们的首次展览名为"快乐"。
And I went, very eagerly, to see it, because -- well, also, with an eye on this conference.	那么我就带着非常渴望的心情去参观，因为， 当然此行的目的也着眼于此次会议。
And they interestingly sectioned the exhibit off into four different areas.	有趣的是，他们将展览分为了四个不同的区域。
Under "Arcadia," they showed things like this, from the Edo period -- a hundred ways to write "happiness" in different forms.	在"阿卡迪亚"展区，他们展出了类似这样的作品，来自于日本江户时期-- --用一百种不同的造型书写快乐的方法。
Or they had this apple by Yoko Ono -- that, of course, later on was, you know, made into the label for The Beatles.	他们还展示了Yoko Ono 的苹果--当然，之后 你知道，他成为了披头士的标签。
Under "Nirvana" they showed this Constable painting.	在"天堂"展区，他们展示了Constable的绘画。
And there was a little -- an interesting theory about abstraction.	关于抽象有一个小而有趣的理论。
This is a blue field -- it's actually an Yves Klein painting.	这是一块蓝色的区域--它实际上是Yves Kline的绘画。
And the theory was that if you abstract an image, you really, you know open as much room for the un-representable -- and, therefore, you know, are able to involve the viewer more.	这个理论就是，如果你将一个图像抽象化，那么你可以， 为这种非代表性打开许多空间-- --因此，可以使观众更多的参与进来。
Then, under "Desire," they showed these Shunsho paintings -- also from the Edo period -- ink on silk.	在"欲望"的展区，他们展示了这些Shunsho的绘画-- --同样来自于日本江户时代--油墨印在丝绸上。
And, lastly, under "Harmony," they had this 13th-century mandala from Tibet.	最后，在"和谐"的展厅内，他们展示了这个十三世纪的来自于西藏的曼陀罗。
Now, what I took away from the exhibit was that maybe with the exception of the mandala most of the pieces in there were actually about the visualization of happiness and not about happiness.	那么，我从这个展览中得到的是， 除了曼陀罗这个特例以外， 展览中的大部分作品实际上都只是给人视觉上的快乐 而不是内心的快乐。
And I felt a little bit cheated, because the visualization -- that's a really easy thing to do.	并且我觉得有点被欺骗的感觉，因为视觉化-- --那真的是很容易做到的事情。
And, you know, my studio -- we've done it all the time.	并且你知道，我的设计工作室--我们一直致力于这方面的工作。
This is, you know, a book.	这是一本书。
A happy dog -- and you take it out, it's an aggressive dog.	一条快乐的狗--当你把外壳去掉，这是一条凶狠的狗。
It's a happy David Byrne and an angry David Byrne.	这是快乐的David Byrne 和愤怒的David Byrne 。
Or a jazz poster with a happy face and a more aggressive face.	或是一张有着笑脸的爵士乐海报，以及面部好斗的表情。
You know, that's not a big deal to accomplish.	你知道，达到这些并没有什么大不了的。
It has gotten to the point where, you know, within advertising or within the movie industry, "happy" has gotten such a bad reputation that if you actually want to do something with the subject and still appear authentic, you almost would have to, you know, do it from a cynical point of view.	在广告行业界，有一种说法， 或者在电影界，就是"快乐"拥有一个非常不好的声誉，以至于 如果你真的想做与这个主题有关的一些事情 并且是原创的话，那你将不得不 从愤世嫉俗的观点角度切入。
This is, you know, the movie poster.	这是一个电影海报。
Or we, a couple of weeks ago, designed a box set for The Talking Heads where the happiness visualized on the cover definitely has, very much, a dark side to it.	这是我们在几周前，为"说话的头"设计的包装， 当然快乐的概念在封面上得到了视觉化的体现，
Much, much more difficult is this, where the designs actually can evoke happiness -- and I'm going to just show you three that actually did this for me.	更加困难的是，如何让设计激起人们的快乐， 我将展示三个真正激起我快乐的设计。
This is a campaign done by a young artist in New York, who calls himself "True."	这是一个由一位年轻的纽约设计师领导的设计项目，他将自己称为"真实"。
Everybody who has ridden the New York subway system will be familiar with these signs?	每个曾经做过纽约地铁的人应该 都对这些标识很熟悉吧？
True printed his own version of these signs.	"真实"设计并印刷出自己的标识版本。
Met every Wednesday at a subway stop with 20 of his friends.	每周三他都会和他的20个朋友在一个地铁站会面。
They divided up the different subway lines and added their own version.	他们分成不同的小组，将他们的标识版本添加在不同的地铁线路上。
So this is one.	笑声 这是一个。
Now, the way this works in the system is that nobody ever looks at these signs.	笑声 实际上并没有人会去看原来的这些标识系统。
So you're you're really bored in the subway, and you kind of stare at something.	所以 笑声 当你十分无聊的在坐地铁的时候，你会盯着某些东西看，
And it takes you a while until it actually -- you realize that this says something different than what it normally says.	然后你花了一定时间直到你意识到-- 这些标识和以前正常的标识表达的内容并不一样。
I mean, that's, at least, how it made me happy.	笑声 我意思是，这至少让我快乐。
Now, True is a real humanitarian.	笑声 "真实"是一个真的人道主义者。
He didn't want any of his friends to be arrested, so he supplied everybody with this fake volunteer card.	他那时也不想朋友们被逮住， 所以他给每位朋友制作了这个假造的志愿者卡片，
And also gave this fake letter from the MTA to everybody -- sort of like pretending that it's an art project financed by The Metropolitan Transit Authority.	笑声 并且给了他们每个人这封假造的，来自于MAT的信-- --使其看起来有点像是一个由 地铁部门资助的一个艺术项目。
Another New York project.	笑声 另一个来自纽约的项目。
This is at P.S. 1 -- a sculpture that's basically a square room by James Turrell, that has a retractable ceiling.	这位于P.S.1--一个基于一个正方形房间的雕塑， 设计者为James Turrell，这个设计有着可伸缩自如的天花板，
Opens up at dusk and dawn every day.	在每天黄昏和黎明时分打开，
You don't see the horizon.	你看不到水平面，
You're just in there, watching the incredible, subtle changes of color in the sky.	你就站在那里面，看着这不可思议的，微妙的天空色彩变化。
And the room is truly something to be seen.	并且这个房间也实在有很多值得看的东西。
People's demeanor changes when they go in there.	当人们进去那里时，人们的行为也会发生改变。
And, for sure, I haven't looked at the sky in the same way after spending an hour in there.	当然，我在那里呆了一个小时后并没有 以同样的方式观察天空。
There are, of course, more than those three projects that I'm showing here.	当然，除了我现在展示的这三张投影图片之外，还有许多其他的天空光影的效果。
I would definitely say that observing Vik Muniz' "Cloud" a couple of years ago in Manhattan for sure made me happy, as well.	我可以确定的说，几年前在麦哈顿观察Vik Muniz设计的"云"项目 确实同样让我感到高兴。
But my last project is, again, from a young designer in New York.	我要展示的最后一个项目，是由一位年轻的纽约设计师所做，
He's from Korea originally.	他其实是韩国人。
And he took it upon himself to print 55,000 speech bubbles -- empty speech bubbles stickers, large ones and small ones.	他主动印了55，000个卡通造型的语言留言板-- --空的卡通留言贴，有大型号的和小型号的。
And he goes around New York and just puts them, empty as they are, on posters.	他在纽约到处游走，并将他们粘在海报上。
And other people go and fill them in.	笑声 其他人走过并填写这些空的留言贴。
This one says, "Please let me die in peace."	笑声 这张写着：请让我安静的死去吧。
I think that was -- the most surprising to myself was that the writing was actually so good.	笑声 我想这个是-- 让我最吃惊的是，这些文字都很漂亮
This is on a musician poster, that says: "I am concerned that my CD will not sell more than 200,000 units and that, as a result, my recoupable advance from my label will be taken from me, after which, my contract will be cancelled, and I'll be back doing Journey covers on Bleecker Street."	这是在一个音乐海报上面的留言，写着： 我担心我的CD将不会卖到超过200，000张， 那么结果将是，我将不会再有自己的 唱片。 在这之后，我的合约将会被取消， 之后我将会回到Bleecker街翻唱别人的歌。
I think the reason this works so well is because everybody involved wins.	笑声 我想这个项目可以达到使人快乐的原因是每个人都获得了一些东西。
Jee gets to have his project; the public gets a sweeter environment; and different public gets a place to express itself; and the advertisers finally get somebody to look at their ads.	Jee做了这个项目； 公众获得了一个更亲切的环境； 以及不同的人获得了一个可以表达他们自己的地方； 并且登广告的人最终获得了一些人去关注他们的广告。
Well, there was a question, of course, that was on my mind for a while: You know, can I do more of the things that I like doing in design and less of the ones that I don't like to be doing?	笑声 当然，在我的思想中有个问题存在了一段时间： 你知道，我可以在设计中做更多我想做的事， 做更少我不想做的事吗？
Which brought me back to my list making -- you know, just to see what I actually like about my job.	这个问题又将我带回了我的这张列表-- --去看看到底我喜欢我工作的那些方面。
You know, one is: just working without pressure.	其中之一就是：可以没有压力的去工作。
Then: working concentrated, without being frazzled.	以及：没有疲惫的专心集中的工作。
Or, as Nancy said before, like really immerse oneself into it.	或者，如同Nancy之前说的，就像自己沉浸在其中。
Try not to get stuck doing the same thing -- or try not get stuck behind the computer all day.	试着不要总是固定的做相同的事-- --或者试着不要总是成天躲在电脑后面。
This is, you know, related to it: getting out of the studio.	这就是，我们说的，走出工作室做设计。
Then, of course, trying to, you know, work on things where the content is actually important for me.	还有就是，当然，试着设计一些东西， 他们的内容是非常重要的。
And being able to enjoy the end results.	并且可以去享受工作的成果。
And then I found another list in one of my diaries that actually contained all the things that I thought I learned in my life so far.	除此之外，我在我的记事本上还找到了另一个列表， --到目前为止在我生命中所学习到的所有东西。
And, just about at that time, an Austrian magazine called and asked if we would want to do six spreads -- design six spreads that work like dividing pages between the different chapters in the magazine?	并且就在那时，一个奥地利的杂志社联系我并问我 是否愿意设计六张杂志广告--设计六张 可以将杂志内不同章节分开的杂志广告？
And the whole thing just fell together.	这个正好与我的想法走到一起了。
So I just picked one of the things that I thought I learned -- in this case, "Everything I do always comes back to me" -- and we made these spreads right out of this.	所以我在其中挑选了一条我认为我已经学到了的东西-- 那就是，我常常想起我做的每件事情-- --并且我们的这个设计就源于此。
So it was: "Everything I do always comes back to me."	所以这就是：所有 我做的 常常 回 到 我这里。
A couple of weeks ago, a French company asked us to design five billboards for them.	几周前， 笑声 一个法国公司邀请我们为他们设计五块广告牌。
Again, we could supply the content for it.	又一次的，我们的设计运用了这里的内容。
So I just picked another one.	所以我挑选了其中的另外一条。
And this was two weeks ago.	这是两周前。
We flew to Arizona -- the designer who works with me, and myself -- and photographed this one.	我们飞去亚利桑那--我自己以及和我一起工作的设计师们 --并且我们为这个项目摄影。
So it's: "Trying to look good limits my life."	这就是： 装出来的 好看 反而局限了 我的人生
And then we did one more of these.	之后我们又做了一个。
This is, again, for a magazine, dividing pages.	这个也是为某杂志设计的分离页面的广告。
This is: "Having" -- this is the same thing; it's just, you know, photographed from the side.	这是：有-- 这是同样的物体-- --只是从侧面的角度拍摄。
This is from the front.	这是前视图。
Then it's: "guts."	然后这是：勇气
Again, it's the same thing -- "guts" is just the same room, reworked.	这是同一个物体--"勇气"，将它修改了后放在同样的房间里。
Then it's: "always works out."	这是：经常 解决
Then it's "for," with the light on.	然后是for，这是打了灯看到的效果
And it's "me."	笑声 这是"我"。
Thank you so much.	非常感谢大家。
	掌声
Those of you who know me know how passionate I am about opening the space frontier.	认识我的人可能都知道我对 探索空间新领域充满了激情
So when I had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity, it was incredible.	我有一个机会给世界上最伟大的重力学专家 一次体验零重力的机会，很让人难以置信
And I want to tell you that story.	现在我想讲给大家这个故事
I first met him through the Archon X PRIZE for Genomics.	我第一次见到他是在阿康艾克斯基因研究大奖上
It's a competition we're holding, the second X PRIZE, for the first team to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days.	那是一个我们组织的比赛。第二届艾克斯基因研究大奖 颁发给第一个在10天内把一百位人类基因组排序小组。
We have something called the Genome 100 -- 100 individuals we're sequencing as part of that.	我们管他们叫基因100 那是一百位我们排序的不同的人
Craig Venter chairs that event.	当时是Craig Venter主持的会议
And I met Professor Hawking, and he said his dream was to travel into space.	我遇到了霍金教授 他说他的梦想是空间旅行
And I said, "I can't take you there, but I can take you into weightlessness into zero-g.	我说，我不能带你到那儿去 但是我可以让你体验失重的状态
And he said, on the spot, "Absolutely, yes."	他说，太好了，当然可以
Well, the only way to experience zero-g on Earth is actually with parabolic flight, weightless flight.	那么，在地球上体验零重力的唯一方法就是 用抛物线飞行来体验
You take an airplane, you fly over the top, you're weightless for 25 seconds.	你坐在飞机上，飞到最高处的时候你大概能体验25秒
Come back down, you weigh twice as much.	然后下来，你体重会加倍
You do it again and again.	然后如此反复
You can get eight, 10 minutes of weightlessness -- how NASA's trained their astronauts for so long.	你最多可以体验八次10分钟的无重力状态 那是NASA一直用来训练他们航天员的办法
We set out to do this.	我们就计划这么做了
It took us 11 years to become operational.	我们花了11年时间才使得计划成功
And we announced that we were going to fly Stephen Hawking.	当我们宣布我们要跟史蒂芬霍金一起飞的时候
We had one government agency and one company aircraft operator say, you're crazy, don't do that, you're going kill the guy.	我们有个政府部门和一位公司的飞行员说 你们疯了么？别啊，你们会要了他的命的
And he wanted to go.	但是他很想去
We worked hard to get all the permissions.	我们经过很多努力才得到了许可
And six months later, we sat down at Kennedy Space Center.	6个月后，我们在肯尼迪航天中心坐下来
We had a press conference, we announced our intent to do one zero-g parabola, give him 25 seconds of zero-g.	我们举行了一个记者会 我们宣布说我们准备做一次零重力抛物线飞行 让他体验25秒的零重力
And if it went really well, we might do three parabolas.	如果一切顺利的话，我们可能会做三次
Well, we asked him why he wanted to go up and do this.	我们其实问了霍金先生为什么想上去做这件事
And what he said, for me, was very moving.	他说的话让我很感动
He said, "Life on Earth is at an ever-increasing risk of being wiped out by disaster ...	他说："地球上的生命正在经历着与日俱增的 被灾难灭绝的危险
I think the human race doesn't have a future if it doesn't go into space.	如果不到宇宙空间去，人类就没有未来
I therefore want to encourage public interest in space."	所以我想鼓励大众对宇宙的兴趣。"
We took him out to the Kennedy Space Center, up inside the NASA vehicle, into the back of the zero-g airplane.	我们带他到了肯尼迪空间中心 进了NASA的车子，然后到了那架飞机上
We had about 20 people who made donations -- we raised $150,000 in donations for children's charities -- who flew with us.	和我们同行的还有20位捐款的人们 我们共为儿童慈善基金募集到了十五万美金 他们将跟我们一起飞行
A few TEDsters here.	有一些TED会员
We set up a whole ER.	我们准备好了一切的急救措施
We had four emergency room doctors and two nurses on board the airplane.	飞机上还有四位急救室的医生和两位护士
We were monitoring his PO2 of his blood, his heart rate, his blood pressure.	我们时刻监视着他血液中PO2的含量，他的心跳率还有血压
We had everything all set in case of an emergency; God knows, you don't want to hurt this world-renowned expert.	我们准备好了一切的应急措施 天知道你可不想伤害到这位世界级的专家
We took off from the shuttle landing facility, where the shuttle takes off and lands.	我们从宇宙飞船着陆点起飞 就是宇宙飞船起飞和降落的地方
And my partner Byron Lichtenberg and I carefully suspended him into zero-g.	我跟我的搭档 Byron Lichtenberg 小心翼翼地扶着他进入零重力
Once he was there, [we] let him go to experience what weightlessness was truly like.	到了顶点我们就松手 让他真正体验无重力是什么感觉
And after that first parabola, you know, the doc said everything is great. He was smiling, and we said go.	第一次抛物飞行之后，你们知道么 医生说一切正常，他就笑了，然后我们说继续
So we did a second parabola.	然后我们就做了第二次抛物飞行
And a third.	（鼓掌） 第三次
We actually floated an apple in homage to Sir Isaac Newton because Professor Hawking holds the same chair at Cambridge that Isaac Newton did.	（鼓掌） 为了表示对爱萨克牛顿爵士的敬意，我们还实验了漂浮一个苹果 因为霍金教授也有剑桥大学的那个席位 就是爱萨克牛顿的那个
And we did a fourth, and a fifth and a sixth.	然后我们做了第四次，第五次，第六次
And a seventh and an eighth.	第七次，第八次
And this man does not look like a 65-year-old wheelchair-bound man.	这时候他看上去可不像一个被绑在轮椅上的65岁男人
He was so happy.	他看上去非常高兴
We are living on a precious jewel, and it's during our lifetime that we're moving off this planet.	我们生活在一块珍贵的宝石上 在我们的有生之年我们离开了这个星球
Please join us in this epic adventure.	让我们一起来加入这场壮丽的探险吧
Thank you so much.	谢谢大家
	（鼓掌）
So, people want a lot of things out of life, but I think, more than anything else, they want happiness.	众所周知，人类为了各种各样的理想而奋斗， 但是我认为，归根究底，他们要的是幸福。
Aristotle called happiness "the chief good," the end towards which all other things aim.	亚里士多德把称幸福为"至高无上的精神享受，" 所有奋斗和追求的终极目标。
According to this view, the reason we want a big house or a nice car or a good job isn't that these things are intrinsically valuable.	根据这个观点，我们之所以渴望一间大房子 或者一辆豪车 或者一个好工作 本质上来说，并不是因为这些东西对我们特别有价值。
It's that we expect them to bring us happiness.	而是因为我们期待这些财富能给我们带来 幸福。
Now in the last 50 years, we Americans have gotten a lot of the things that we want. We're richer.	在过去的50年里，我们美国人的物质生活 达到了前所未有的高度。我们更富有了。
We live longer. We have access to technology that would have seemed like science fiction just a few years ago.	平均寿命更长了。廉价而又实用的科技产品 使我们的生活看起来犹如科幻小说一般 仅仅是几年的功夫。
The paradox of happiness is that even though the objective conditions of our lives have improved dramatically, we haven't actually gotten any happier.	但是令人费解的是，虽然 客观上我们的物质生活水平有了极大的提高， 我们的幸福感却一点也没增加，
Maybe because these conventional notions of progress haven't delivered big benefits in terms of happiness, there's been an increased interest in recent years in happiness itself.	也许是因为这些传统意义上能增加幸福感的方法 其实对幸福感并没有什么大的影响， 近些年来越来越多的人对 幸福本身产生了浓厚的兴趣。
People have been debating the causes of happiness for a really long time, in fact for thousands of years, but it seems like many of those debates remain unresolved.	很长一段时间，大家都在争论到底是什么带给人类 幸福感，事实上这场争论已经持续了数千年之久， 但是看起来这些争论都没有令人信服的结果。
Well, as with many other domains in life, I think the scientific method has the potential to answer this question.	恩，如同生活中很多领域一样，我认为 科学研究是可以来回答这个问题的。
In fact, in the last few years, there's been an explosion in research on happiness. For example, we've learned a lot about its demographics, how things like income and education, gender and marriage relate to it.	其实，在过去的数年里，对于幸福的研究 有了一些突破性的进展。比如，我们通过对 人口统计学的研究了解到，外界因素诸如收入 和教育，性别与婚姻状况对幸福感有一定的影响。
But one of the puzzles this has revealed is that factors like these don't seem to have a particularly strong effect.	但是令人觉得矛盾的是 上面提过的这些都不是决定性的因素。
Yes, it's better to make more money rather than less, or to graduate from college instead of dropping out, but the differences in happiness tend to be small.	的确，多挣些钱是件好事， 大学毕业肯定比中途辍学好很多， 但是这些对幸福感的影响都微乎其微。
Which leaves the question, what are the big causes of happiness?	这不禁让我们陷入思考中，什么才是幸福感的决定性因素呢？
I think that's a question we haven't really answered yet, but I think something that has the potential to be an answer is that maybe happiness has an awful lot to do with the contents of our moment-to-moment experiences.	我觉得这个问题我们还没有百分之百肯定的答案， 但是我认为我们已经找到一种很可能是答案的观点 就是 也许幸福感是取决于 生活中各式各样的瞬间感受。
It certainly seems that we're going about our lives, that what we're doing, who we're with, what we're thinking about, have a big influence on our happiness, and yet these are the very factors that have been very difficult, in fact almost impossible, for scientists to study.	这就好像我们正面对的日常生活中， 我们正在做的事情，我们和谁在一起，我们正在考虑什么， 对我们的幸福指数有很大的影响，不仅如此 还有很多因素他们很难， 事实上几乎是不可能，作为研究的素材。
A few years ago, I came up with a way to study people's happiness moment to moment as they're going about their daily lives on a massive scale all over the world, something we'd never been able to do before. Called trackyourhappiness.org, it uses the iPhone to monitor people's happiness in real time.	几年前，我找到一种研究幸福感的方法 随时随地进行研究在人们日常生活中 并在全世界范围内开展，这些我们曾经 想都不敢想的事。我们把它命名为 trackyourhappiness.org(网址） 它能通过Iphone实时监测大家的幸福指数。
How does this work? Basically, I send people signals at random points throughout the day, and then I ask them a bunch of questions about their moment-to-moment experience at the instant just before the signal.	它的工作原理是什么呢？基本上，我会联系他们 在一个随机的时间，随后我会问他们 一些问题关于他们的即时感受 在我联系他们之前的那一瞬间。
The idea is that, if we can watch how people's happiness goes up and down over the course of the day, minute to minute in some cases, and try to understand how what people are doing, who they're with, what they're thinking about, and all the other factors that describe our day, how those might relate to those changes in happiness, we might be able to discover some of the things that really have a big influence on happiness.	这么做的原因是，如果我们可以观察到他们的幸福指数 上升或者下降伴随着这一天的进行， 有些案例是每分钟联系一次， 并且尽量找出大家在做什么 他们和谁在一起，他们在想什么，和其它 所有能描述我们生活的因素，这些因素是如何 跟幸福指数联系在一起的，我们也许能通过它 去发现那些真正能 对幸福感产生重大影响的东西。
We've been fortunate with this project to collect quite a lot of data, a lot more data of this kind than I think has ever been collected before, over 650,000 real-time reports from over 15,000 people.	我们很幸运的通过这个途径 收集到了大量的资料，比我预期的还要多的资料 前所未有的多， 超过65万的即时信息 来自超过1万5千名志愿者。
And it's not just a lot of people, it's a really diverse group, people from a wide range of ages, from 18 to late 80s, a wide range of incomes, education levels, people who are married, divorced, widowed, etc.	不但人数众多，而且分布广泛， 志愿者分布在不同的年龄层，从18岁到80岁， 不同的收入阶层，教育层次， 已婚的，离婚的，丧偶的，等等。
They collectively represent every one of 86 occupational categories and hail from over 80 countries.	这些志愿者出在 86个不同行业并且来自超过80个国家。
What I'd like to do with the rest of my time with you today is talk a little bit about one of the areas that we've been investigating, and that's mind-wandering.	在今天剩下的时间里我要做的是 和大家探讨一下其中一部分我们已经 研究了一段时间的东西，那就是走神。
As human beings, we have this unique ability to have our minds stray away from the present.	作为人类，我们有这种独一无二的能力 把我们的注意力从眼前的事物转移到别处。
This guy is sitting here working on his computer, and yet he could be thinking about the vacation he had last month, wondering what he's going to have for dinner.	这个人正坐在电脑前工作， 但是他可能正在回味 上个月的旅行， 考虑一会去哪儿吃晚饭。
Maybe he's worried that he's going bald.	可能他正在担心自己快要秃了。
This ability to focus our attention on something other than the present is really amazing. It allows us to learn and plan and reason in ways that no other species of animal can.	这个能力使我们能让我们把更多注意力转移到其它地方 而不是当下正在做的事 这实在是太惊人了。这个能力让人类 以自己独有的方式学习，设计和理解。
And yet it's not clear what the relationship is between our use of this ability and our happiness.	至今我们还是不能确定使用这种能力 和我们的幸福感有什么关系。
You've probably heard people suggest that you should stay focused on the present. "Be here now," you've probably heard a hundred times.	你肯定曾经听到别人建议你 做事情要专心致志。"不要走神，" 你肯定听得耳朵都长茧了。
Maybe, to really be happy, we need to stay completely immersed and focused on our experience in the moment.	也许，想要幸福，我们应该沉浸 并且专注在我们曾经经历过的美好瞬间。
Maybe these people are right. Maybe mind-wandering is a bad thing.	也许这些人是对的。也许走神 不是件好事。
On the other hand, when our minds wander, they're unconstrained. We can't change the physical reality in front of us, but we can go anywhere in our minds.	但另一方面，走神可以让 我们的思想无拘无束。我们不能改变在我们 面前的现实世界，但是我们的思想却可以飞到任何地方。
Since we know people want to be happy, maybe when our minds wander, they're going to someplace happier than the place that they're leaving. It would make a lot of sense.	我们知道人类渴望得到幸福，也许 当我们走神时，思想正飞往比眼前 更幸福的地方。这样就说得通了。
In other words, maybe the pleasures of the mind allow us to increase our happiness with mind-wandering.	换句话说，也许思想中的愉悦 通过走神提高了我们的幸福感。
Well, since I'm a scientist, I'd like to try to resolve this debate with some data, and in particular I'd like to present some data to you from three questions that I ask with Track Your Happiness. Remember, this is from sort of moment-to-moment experience in people's real lives.	好吧，作为一个科学工作者，我希望尽量 用数据来解决这个争论，所以我会特别想 展示一些数据给大家。这些数据来自与三个 我在追踪幸福指数中问到过的问题。请记住，这些都来自 人们日常生活中的瞬间感受。
There are three questions. The first one is a happiness question: How do you feel, on a scale ranging from very bad to very good? Second, an activity question: What are you doing, on a list of 22 different activities including things like eating and working and watching TV?	这里有三个问题。第一个问题关于快乐： 你心情怎么样，衡量标准从非常差 到非常好？第二个问题，关于行为： 你在干嘛，我们的清单上记录了22中不同的活动 包括吃饭，工作和看电视？
And finally a mind-wandering question: Are you thinking about something other than what you're currently doing?	和一个关于 走神的问题： 你在想些别的事吗 而不是专心在眼下正在做的这件？
People could say no -- in other words, I'm focused only on my task -- or yes -- I am thinking about something else -- and the topic of those thoughts are pleasant, neutral or unpleasant.	有人会回答 没有--或者换个说法，我正专注在我的工作上-- 有人会说 是的--我正在想些别的事-- 这些事可能是高兴的， 平淡无奇的或者不高兴的。
Any of those yes responses are what we called mind-wandering.	这些事就是我们所谓的走神了。
So what did we find?	所以我们发现什么了什么？
This graph shows happiness on the vertical axis, and you can see that bar there representing how happy people are when they're focused on the present, when they're not mind-wandering.	这些柱状图为我们描述了各种状态下的幸福指数， 大家可以看到 眼前这个柱状图代表了 人们集中精神在当下时的幸福指数， 当他们没有走神的时候。
As it turns out, people are substantially less happy when their minds are wandering than when they're not.	事实证明，人们的幸福指数明显降低了 当他们走神的时候相对于没走神时。
Now you might look at this result and say, okay, sure, on average people are less happy when they're mind-wandering, but surely when their minds are straying away from something that wasn't very enjoyable to begin with, at least then mind-wandering should be doing something good for us.	现在看着眼前的结果大家可能会说，好吧，一定是这样， 普遍情况下人们在走神的状态下会觉得不幸福， 但是很有可能当人们的注意力从 一些令人不爽的事情上转移到其它地方时， 至少这个时候走神能让我们觉得快乐一点。
Nope. As it turns out, people are less happy when they're mind-wandering no matter what they're doing. For example, people don't really like commuting to work very much.	不是的。事实证明， 人们并不会因为走神而变得更幸福 无论他们正在干嘛。例如， 所有人都很不喜欢每日通勤这档子事。
It's one of their least enjoyable activities, and yet they are substantially happier when they're focused only on their commute than when their mind is going off to something else.	它是公认的最令人不愉快的活动,即便如此 当人们只把注意力放在赶路上的时候 依然会感觉比走神到其它事情上 更快乐一点。
It's amazing.	太让人吃惊了。
So how could this be happening? I think part of the reason, a big part of the reason, is that when our minds wander, we often think about unpleasant things, and they are enormously less happy when they do that, our worries, our anxieties, our regrets, and yet even when people are thinking about something neutral, they're still considerably less happy than when they're not mind-wandering at all.	是什么导致了这样的结果呢？我认为部分原因是， 很大程度上吧，是因为当我们走神的时候， 我们经常会想起一些不太愉快的事情，这些事情比 眼下正在做的事情悲惨多了， 我们的担心，忧虑，心中的悔恨， 即便是当人们正在想一些 平淡无奇的事情，人们的幸福指数依然低于 集中精神的时候。
Even when they're thinking about something they would describe as pleasant, they're actually just slightly less happy than when they aren't mind-wandering.	甚至当人们想着那些令人愉悦的事情时， 人们的幸福指数依然略低于 不走神的时候。
If mind-wandering were a slot machine, it would be like having the chance to lose 50 dollars, 20 dollars or one dollar. Right? You'd never want to play.	如果把走神看成一台老虎机，跟它赌只有三种结果 输50块，输20块 或者输一块钱。对吧？你肯定不想玩它。
So I've been talking about this, suggesting, perhaps, that mind-wandering causes unhappiness, but all I've really shown you is that these two things are correlated.	索然我已经说了很多关于幸福感的，建议，假设， 走神也许会降低我们的幸福感，但是 我真正想为大家展示的是 "走神"和"幸福感"两者是有关联的。
It's possible that's the case, but it might also be the case that when people are unhappy, then they mind-wander.	也许走神会降低幸福感，但是也有可能是另一种情况 人们因为觉得不幸福才走神。
Maybe that's what's really going on. How could we ever disentangle these two possibilites?	也许这才是真相。我们怎么才能 从这两种可能性中解脱出来？
Well, one fact that we can take advantage of, I think a fact you'll all agree is true, is that time goes forward, not backward. Right? The cause has to come before the effect.	好吧，我们可以利用一个事实，我认为这个事实 大家都同意它的存在，这就是时间总是向前的，而不是 倒退的。对吧？原因一定出现在结果之前。
We're lucky in this data we have many responses from each person, and so we can look and see, does mind-wandering tend to precede unhappiness, or does unhappiness tend to precede mind-wandering, to get some insight into the causal direction.	我们很幸运的从大家那里搜集到这些数据， 据此我们可以观察并且找出，是走神 在痛苦之前出现，还是痛苦 在走神之前出现，通过这种以因果为导向 的方法。
As it turns out, there is a strong relationship between mind-wandering now and being unhappy a short time later, consistent with the idea that mind-wandering is causing people to be unhappy.	事实证明，很多时候人们会觉得不快乐 当他们刚刚走神了以后， 这很符合我们对于走神会降低幸福指数的推测.
In contrast, there's no relationship between being unhappy now and mind-wandering a short time later.	相比之下，没有证据表明走神发生在 人们觉得不快乐之后。
In other words, mind-wandering very likely seems to be an actual cause, and not merely a consequence, of unhappiness.	换句话说，走神看起来很像是 是导致不幸福的真正原因，而不是结果，不幸福的后果。
A few minutes ago, I likened mind-wandering to a slot machine you'd never want to play.	就在刚才，我把走神比喻成 一台无人问津的老虎机。
Well, how often do people's minds wander?	恩，人们走神的频率有多高呢？
Turns out, they wander a lot. In fact, really a lot.	数据证明，走神的现象非常普遍。事实上，简直是无时无刻。
Forty-seven percent of the time, people are thinking about something other than what they're currently doing.	47%的时间里，人们都在思考别的事情 而不是眼下正在做的。
How does that depend on what people are doing?	走神与否跟正在做的事情有什么关系呢？
This shows the rate of mind-wandering across 22 activities ranging from a high of 65 percent — — when people are taking a shower, brushing their teeth, to 50 percent when they're working, to 40 percent when they're exercising, all the way down to this one short bar on the right that I think some of you are probably laughing at.	这里我们可以看到22种活动的走神比重 有的活动走神时间长达65%———— 当人们洗澡，或者刷牙的时候， 当人们在工作的时候50%的时间出在走神中， 当人们在运动的时候40%的时间出在走神中， 依次往下直到最短的这个柱状图 我相信很多人都会笑出来的。
Ten percent of the time people's minds are wandering when they're having sex.	10%的时间在走神 当他们在做爱的时候。
But there's something I think that's quite interesting in this graph, and that is, basically with one exception, no matter what people are doing, they're mind-wandering at least 30 percent of the time, which suggests, I think, that mind-wandering isn't just frequent, it's ubiquitous.	但是我认为这张图告诉了我们意见很有意思的事情， 这就是，基本上没有例外， 无论人们在做什么，他们都会走神 至少在30%的时间里走神，这告诉我们，我认为， 走神不仅仅频繁的出现，走神无处不在。
It pervades basically everything that we do.	走神遍布在所有的人类活动中。
In my talk today, I've told you a little bit about mind-wandering, a variable that I think turns out to be fairly important in the equation for happiness.	我们聊了这么多，我已经给大家讲了一些关于走神的观点， 一个已被明确证实得 存在于幸福方程式中的变量。
My hope is that over time, by tracking people's moment-to-moment happiness and their experiences in daily life, we'll be able to uncover a lot of important causes of happiness, and then in the end, a scientific understanding of happiness will help us create a future that's not only richer and healthier, but happier as well.	我希望随着时间的过去，通过追踪人们的 即时幸福指数和他们的经历 在日常生活中，我们可以找出那些真正影响我们幸福感的因素， 最后，我相信科学并且系统的理解幸福 将会为我们创造一个更美好的未来 不仅仅是更富有 更健康，也更加幸福。
Thank you.	谢谢你们。
This is an ambucycle.	这是辆摩托救护车。
This is the fastest way to reach any medical emergency.	能以最快速度到达任何医疗紧急地点。
It has everything an ambulance has except for a bed.	除了没有床，救护车有的它都有了。
You see the defibrillator. You see the equipment.	有心脏除颤器,有医疗设备.
We all saw the tragedy that happened in Boston.	我们看到了波士顿发生的惨剧。
When I was looking at these pictures, it brought me back many years to my past when I was a child.	看到这些照片， 我想起了多年前 我还是个孩子时的事情.
I grew up in a small neighborhood in Jerusalem.	我成长在耶路撒冷的一个小社区。
When I was six years old, I was walking back from school on a Friday afternoon with my older brother.	六岁那年，我放学回家 那是个星期五的下午，我跟哥哥一起。
We were passing by a bus stop.	我们路过一个公共车站。
We saw a bus blow up in front of our eyes.	一辆公车在我们眼前爆炸了。
The bus was on fire, and many people were hurt and killed.	车着火了，很多人受伤和被烧死。
I remembered an old man yelling to us and crying to help us get him up.	我记得一位老人 对我们喊，哭着要我们帮他站起来。
He just needed someone helping him.	他只是需要人帮助他。
We were so scared and we just ran away.	而我们却吓得落荒而逃。
Growing up, I decided I wanted to become a doctor and save lives.	长大后，我决定成为一位医生好拯救生命。
Maybe that was because of what I saw when I was a child.	或许就是因为我孩提时看到的景象。
When I was 15, I took an EMT course, and I went to volunteer on an ambulance.	我十五岁那年，选了EMT课程， 就去在救护车上做义工。
For two years, I volunteered on an ambulance in Jerusalem.	有两年时间，我在耶路撒冷的救护车上做义工。
I helped many people, but whenever someone really needed help, I never got there in time. We never got there.	帮助了很多人， 但每当真有人需要帮忙时， 我从没及时赶到过,我们从没及时赶到过!
The traffic is so bad. The distance, and everything.	要么堵车厉害，或是距离遥远，等等原因.
We never got there when somebody really needed us.	当有人真的需要我们的时候，我们从没及时赶到过.
One day, we received a call about a seven-year-old child choking from a hot dog.	一天，我们接到一个电话，说一个7岁的孩子 被热狗咽着了。
Traffic was horrific, and we were coming from the other side of town in the north part of Jerusalem.	那天车堵得厉害，我们是从 耶路萨冷北部的另外一边的一个镇上赶过去.
When we got there, 20 minutes later, we started CPR on the kid.	20分钟后，我们赶到那， 开始对这个孩子做CPR。
A doctor comes in from a block away, stop us, checks the kid, and tells us to stop CPR.	一位医生从一条街之外的地方赶来, 他止住了我们，看了下孩子，叫我们停止CPR。
That second he declared this child dead.	他宣布了这个孩子的死亡。
At that moment, I understood that this child died for nothing.	那一刻，我突然意识到 这孩子死得毫无意义。
If this doctor, who lived one block away from there, would have come 20 minutes earlier, not have to wait until that siren he heard before coming from the ambulance, if he would have heard about it way before, he would have saved this child.	如果，这位住在一条街以外的医生 能早来20分钟， 而不是等听到救护车的警报声 才来， 如果他之前听到了， 他就能救了这个孩子。
He could have run from a block away.	他甚至能从那条街跑过来,
He could have saved this child.	就能救这个孩子.
I said to myself, there must be a better way.	我告诉自己，一定有个更好的办法。
Together with 15 of my friends -- we were all EMTs — we decided, let's protect our neighborhood, so when something like that happens again, we will be there running to the scene a lot before the ambulance.	我们十五个朋友一起 全是EMT, 决定自己行动起来,保护我们的社区， 所以，每当有类似的事情发生， 我们将赶在救护车之前跑到现场。
So I went over to the manager of the ambulance company and I told him, "Please, whenever you have a call coming into our neighborhood, we have 15 great guys who are willing to stop everything they're doing and run and save lives.	我去找救护车公司的经理 告诉他，"等你有电话要到 我们社区急救时, 我们有十五个训练有素的人愿意 停下手中的任何事情，跑来抢救生命。
Just alert us by beeper.	就用呼叫器叫我们就行。
We'll buy these beepers, just tell your dispatch to send us the beeper, and we will run and save lives."	我们会买来呼叫器，只是让你们的调度 呼叫我们，我们就跑来救人。"
Well, he was laughing. I was 17 years old. I was a kid.	他不屑一顾，当时我17岁，还是个孩子。
And he said to me — I remember this like yesterday — he was a great guy, but he said to me, "Kid, go to school, or go open a falafel stand.	我清楚地记得他对我说， 虽说他是个好人，但他说， 孩子，上学去吧，或去开个路边摊。
We're not really interested in these kinds of new adventures.	我们对这些新玩艺不感兴趣。
We're not interested in your help." And he threw me out of the room.	我们不要你们帮忙。"他就把我赶出来了。
"I don't need your help," he said.	他说，"我不需要你们的帮忙。"
I was a very stubborn kid.	我是个顽固的孩子。
As you see now, I'm walking around like crazy, meshugenah.	看我，疯子一样走来走去。
So I decided to use the Israeli very famous technique you've probably all heard of, chutzpah.	于是，我决定使用以色列人很著名的技巧 你们或许早有耳闻，就是厚颜大胆。
And the next day, I went and I bought two police scanners, and I said, "The hell with you, if you don't want to give me information, I'll get the information myself."	第二天，我去买了两个警用频道捜索仪, 并自言自语，"去你的吧，你不提供信息给我， 我自己去搞。"
And we did turns, who's going to listen to the radio scanners.	我们轮班，监听有关信息.
The next day, while I was listening to the scanners, I heard about a call coming in of a 70-year-old man hurt by a car only one block away from me on the main street of my neighborhood.	第二天，正当我值班时, 听到一个电话说一位70岁的老人 被车撞了，就离我一街之隔, 在我社区的一条主要大街上。
I ran there by foot. I had no medical equipment.	我拔腿就跑到那，我没有医疗器械。
When I got there, the 70-year-old man was lying on the floor, blood was gushing out of his neck.	到那时，这位70岁的老人 躺在地上，鲜血从脖子涌出。
He was on Coumadin.	他用了香豆素.
I knew I had to stop his bleeding or else he would die.	我知道我要快止血，不然他会死的。
I took off my yarmulke, because I had no medical equipment, and with a lot of pressure, I stopped his bleeding.	我摘下我的圆顶小帽，因为我没有什么医疗设备， 我用了很大力，把血止住了。
He was bleeding from his neck.	他本来是大量出血的,
When the ambulance arrived 15 minutes later, I gave them over a patient who was alive.	十五分钟后救护车到了， 我把还健在的病人交给他们。
When I went to visit him two days later, he gave me a hug and was crying and thanking me for saving his life.	两天后我去拜访他， 他拥抱着我，哭着 感谢我救了他的命。
At that moment, when I realized this is the first person I ever saved in my life after two years volunteering in an ambulance, I knew this is my life's mission.	那时，我意识到他是我 这两年做救护义工以来救活的第一人. 我知道，这是我人生的使命。
So today, 22 years later, we have United Hatzalah.	22年后的今天，我们有了United Hatzalah。
"Hatzalah" means "rescue," for all of you who don't know Hebrew.	"Hatzalah"的意思是救助，如果你不懂希伯来语的话。
I forgot I'm not in Israel.	我忘了我不是在以色列。
So we have thousands of volunteers who are passionate about saving lives, and they're spread all around, so whenever a call comes in, they just stop everything and go and run and save a life.	我们有成千上万的志愿者 他们满腔热情拯救生命， 他们在不同的地方，一有电话进来， 他们就停下手上的事情，跑去救人。
Our average response time today went down to less than three minutes in Israel.	现在我们的平均回应时间 在以色列是不到3分钟。
I'm talking about heart attacks, I'm talking about car accidents, God forbid bomb attacks, shootings, whatever it is, even a woman 3 o'clock in the morning falling in her home and needs someone to help her.	我讲的是心脏病发作， 车祸， 炸弹攻击，枪击，等等 甚至有个妇女凌晨3点 在家里摔倒需要人帮助她。
Three minutes, we'll have a guy with his pajamas running to her house and helping her get up.	3分钟内,我们会有人穿着睡衣 跑到她家里，扶她起身。
The reasons why we're so successful are because of three things.	我们如此成功的原因有三。
Thousands of passionate volunteers who will leave everything they do and run to help people they don't even know.	成千上万的热情志愿者 他们将丢下手中的活儿, 跑去帮助他们不认识的人。
We're not there to replace ambulances.	我们不是代替救护车。
We're just there to get the gap between the ambulance call until they arrive.	我们到那， 去填补救护车到达之前的那个空缺时间。
And we save people that otherwise would not be saved.	我们救人，不然他们就没救了。
The second reason is because of our technology.	第二个原因是我们的技术。
You know, Israelis are good in technology.	大家知道，以色列技术很先进的。
Every one of us has on his phone, no matter what kind of phone, a GPS technology done by NowForce, and whenever a call comes in, the closest five volunteers get the call, and they actually get there really quick, and navigated by a traffic navigator to get there and not waste time.	我们的手机，不管什么样的， 都有NowForce的全球定位系统 一有电话进来， 最近的五位志愿者会接到电话， 他们很快赶去， 有交通情况导航，不会浪费时间。
And this is a great technology we use all over the country and reduce the response time.	这个技术我们用于全国 减少了回应时间。
And the third thing are these ambucycles.	第三个就是摩托救护车。
These ambucycles are an ambulance on two wheels.	这些摩托救护车是两轮的救护车。
We don't transfer people, but we stabilize them, and we save their lives.	我们不运送人，但我们会及时处理病人,这样 我们就救了他们的命。
They never get stuck in traffic. They could even go on a sidewalk.	它们从不会被堵在路上，甚至可以走人行道。
They never, literally, get stuck in traffic.	真的,它们从来没遇到过交通堵塞.
That's why we get there so fast.	这就是为什么我们会如此之快到达。
A few years after I started this organization, in a Jewish community, two Muslims from east Jerusalem called me up.	我在犹太社区组建这个机构 的几年后, , 两个穆斯林从东耶路撒冷打电话给我。
They ask me to meet. They wanted to meet with me.	他们要求见我。他们想见我。
Muhammad Asli and Murad Alyan.	是Muhammad Asli 和Murad Alyan.
When Muhammad told me his personal story, how his father, 55 years old, collapsed at home, had a cardiac arrest, and it took over an hour for an ambulance arrive, and he saw his father die in front of his eyes, he asked me, "Please start this in east Jerusalem."	Muhammad告诉我一个他的亲身经历, 他的父亲，55岁，倒在家中， 出现心搏停止 救护车一个多小时后才到， 他眼看着父亲去世， 他问我，"请在东耶路撒冷也开始摩托救护吧."
I said to myself, I saw so much tragedy, so much hate, and it's not about saving Jews. It's not about saving Muslims.	我看到太多悲剧，太多愤恨 这不是只救犹太人, 或是穆斯林,
It's not about saving Christians. It's about saving people.	或是基督徒, 这是救助所有的人.
So I went ahead, full force -- — and I started United Hatzalah in east Jerusalem, and that's why the names United and Hatzalah match so well.	所以我答应了,并全力以赴。 我开始了东耶路撒冷的United Hatzalah。 这是为什么United 与Hatzalah如此相配。
We started hand in hand saving Jews and Arabs.	我们手拉手救犹太人和阿拉伯人。
Arabs were saving Jews. Jews were saving Arabs.	阿拉伯人在救犹太人。犹太人在救阿拉伯人。
Something special happened.	发生了这么奇特的事。
Arabs and Jews, they don't always get along together, but here in this situation, the communities, literally, it's an unbelievable situation that happened, the diversities, all of a sudden they had a common interest: Let's save lives together.	阿拉伯人和犹太人并不总是很合得来， 但在这种情形下， 这些社区中，毫无夸张 令人不可思议的事情发生了， 突然间，他们有了个共同的兴趣： 一起拯救生命。
Settlers were saving Arabs and Arabs were saving settlers.	殖民者救阿拉伯人，阿拉伯人救殖民者.
It's an unbelievable concept that could work only when you have such a great cause.	这种不可思议的事能奏效 只能是当正义的原由存在.
And these are all volunteers.	而且,大家全都是志愿者。
No one is getting money.	没人得到任何报酬.
They're all doing it for the purpose of saving lives.	他们这样做的目的就是拯救生命。
When my own father collapsed a few years ago from a cardiac arrest, one of the first volunteers to arrive to save my father was one of these Muslim volunteers from east Jerusalem who was in the first course to join Hatzalah.	我父亲几年前突然 由于心博停止晕倒，在最早 赶来抢救我父亲的志愿者中,有一位 就是来自东耶路撒冷的穆斯林志愿者, 他是第一批参加Hatzalah救助队的。
And he saved my father.	他救了我父亲。
Could you imagine how I felt in that moment?	能想象我当时的感受吗？
When I started this organization, I was 17 years old.	我开始这个组织的时候，我17岁。
I never imagined that one day I'd be speaking at TEDMED.	我从没想象有一天我会在TEDMED上讲话。
I never even knew what TEDMED was then.	我当时根本不知道TEDMED是怎么回事。
I don't think it existed, but I never imagined, I never imagined that it's going to go all around, it's going to spread around, and this last year we started in Panama and Brazil.	它根本不存在，但我从没想象， 我从没想象我的组织会发展到各地， 它还会扩展， 去年我们开始了巴拿马和巴西的分支机构,
All I need is a partner who is a little meshugenah like me, passionate about saving lives, and willing to do it.	我需要的就是一个和我一样疯狂的合作伙伴， 热衷于抢救生命，愿意去做。
And I'm actually starting it in India very soon with a friend who I met in Harvard just a while back.	我很快就要在印度开始 和一个以前在哈弗遇到的朋友。
Hatzalah actually started in Brooklyn by a Hasidic Jew years before us in Williamsburg, and now it's all over the Jewish community in New York, even Australia and Mexico and many other Jewish communities.	其实在布鲁克林区威廉斯堡镇有一个哈西德派的犹太人开始的Hatzalah， 要早我们好几年， 现在，它发展到纽约的全部犹太社区, 甚至在澳大利亚和墨西哥的许多别的犹太社区也有了。
But it could spread everywhere.	它还会扩展到世界各地.
It's very easy to adopt.	它很容易被人接受。
You even saw these volunteers in New York saving lives in the World Trade Center.	你甚至会看到纽约的志愿者们 在世贸中心救人。
Last year alone, we treated in Israel 207,000 people.	光去年在以色列，我们救助了20万7千人。
Forty-two thousand of them were life-threatening situations.	有4万2千人是处于生命危险状况。
And we made a difference.	我们的付出有了成效。
I guess you could call this a lifesaving flash mob, and it works.	你也可以称之为"救命闪侠" 大有成效。
When I look all around here, I see lots of people who would go an extra mile, run an extra mile to save other people, no matter who they are, no matter what religion, no matter who, where they come from.	我看看这里， 有很多人愿意再付出一把， 再多跑一里路去救别人， 不管是谁，不管是什么信仰， 无论是谁，从哪里来。
We all want to be heroes.	我们都想成为英雄。
We just need a good idea, motivation and lots of chutzpah, and we could save millions of people that otherwise would not be saved.	我们只需一个好点子，动机 和很多的厚颜大胆， 那么我们就能拯救数百万 生命垂危的人.
Thank you very much.	谢谢大家！
I'm going to tell you about one of the world's largest problems and how it can be solved.	我将要说的，是现今世界最大的问题之一 以及解决它的方法
I'd like to start with a little experiment.	我想以一个小实验开场
Could you put your hand up if you wear glasses or contact lenses, or you've had laser refractive surgery?	戴眼镜或隐形眼镜的请举手 或者做过激光屈光手术的
Now, unfortunately, there are too many of you for me to do the statistics properly.	麻烦了，人太多了我都数不过来了
But it looks like -- I'm guessing -- that it'll be about 60 percent of the room because that's roughly the fraction of developed world population that have some sort of vision correction.	但是我估计，举手的人大概占60% 因为这差不多就是做过视力矫正的人 在发达国家的比例
The World Health Organization estimates -- well, they make various estimates of the number of people who need glasses -- the lowest estimate is 150 million people.	世界卫生组织评估过 他们通过不同的方式评估过需要戴眼镜的人数 最少也得有一亿五千万人
They also have an estimate of around a billion.	还有的估计是差不多10亿
But in fact, I would argue that we've just done an experiment here and now, which shows us that the global need for corrective eyewear is around half of any population.	但是事实上，我们在这里刚刚统计了一次 说明世界上有差不多一半的人 需要佩戴眼镜
And the problem of poor vision, is actually not just a health problem, it's also an educational problem, and it's an economic problem, and it's a quality of life problem.	视力差，实际上不仅仅是个健康问题 它还是教育问题 经济问题，生活质量的问题
Glasses are not very expensive. They're quite plentiful.	眼镜不贵，也不紧缺
The problem is, there aren't enough eye care professionals in the world to use the model of the delivery of corrective eyewear that we have in the developed world.	问题在于，没有足够的眼科方面的专业人士 会使用我们在发达国家中所用的 视力矫正器
There are just way too few eye care professionals.	眼科护理专家实在是太少了
So this little slide here shows you an optometrist and the little blue person represents about 10,000 people and that's the ratio in the U.K.	幻灯片上表示的是一位验光师 一个蓝色小人代表大约一万人 这是在英国的比例
This is the ratio of optometrists to people in sub-Saharan Africa.	这是在撒哈拉以南非洲中验光师占总人口的比例
In fact, there are some countries in sub-Saharan Africa where there's one optometrist for eight million of the population.	事实上，有一些撒哈拉以南非洲的国家 八百万人里只有一个验光师
How do you do this? How do you solve this problem?	怎么办？怎么解决这个问题？
I came up with a solution to this problem, and I came up with a solution based on adaptive optics for this.	我有个办法 这个方法是基于自适应光学的
And the idea is you make eye glasses, and you adjust them yourself and that solves the problem.	自己做眼镜，自己调整 这样问题就解决了
What I want to do is to show you that one can make a pair of glasses.	我接下来给你们演示自己如何做副眼镜
I shall just show you how you make a pair of glasses. I shall pop this in my pocket.	我来给你们演示一下，我把它放在口袋里
I'm short sighted. I look at the signs at the end, I can hardly see them.	我近视，几乎看不到最后排的标志
So -- okay, I can now see that man running out there, and I can see that guy running out there.	这样，好了，我能看见有个人跑出去了 我还能看见那边有个人跑出去了
I've now made prescription eyewear to my prescription.	我通过自己诊断，做了副处方眼镜
Next step in my process.	接下来要这么做
So, I've now made eye glasses to my prescription.	我给自己诊断，做了副眼镜
Okay, so I've made these glasses and ...	好，这个眼镜...
Okay, I've made the glasses to my prescription and ...	...只要自己就行
... I've just ...	就快好了
And I've now made some glasses. That's it.	这就是我自己做的眼镜
Now, these aren't the only pair in the world.	这副眼镜不是独一无二的
In fact, this technology's been evolving.	事实上，这种技术一直在发展
I started working on it in 1985, and it's been evolving very slowly.	我从1985年开始从事这个工作 这项技术发展得非常缓慢
There are about 30,000 in use now.	现在世界上有大约三万人在使用
And they're in fifteen countries. They're spread around the world.	他们分布在十五个国家，遍布全世界
And I have a vision, which I'll share with you.	我有个梦想，想要跟大家分享
I have a global vision for vision.	一个关于视力的全球性的梦想
And that vision is to try to get a billion people wearing the glasses they need by the year 2020.	就是让十亿人 到2020年，能带上这种眼镜
To do that -- this is an early example of the technology.	要实现这个梦想----这只是个早期演示品
The technology is being further developed -- the cost has to be brought down.	现在技术已经大幅进步了 必须减小成本
This pair, in fact, these currently cost about 19 dollars.	这副眼镜，事实上，成本大约19美元
But the cost has to be brought right down.	但成本必须降下来
It has to be brought down because we're trying to serve populations who live on a dollar a day.	之所以要控制成本，是因为我们服务的人群 是日均消费水平只有1美元的人
How do you solve this problem?	怎么办？
You start to get into detail.	你得从细节着手
And on this slide, I'm basically explaining all the problems you have.	这里我简要的介绍下可能遇到的各种问题
How do you distribute? How do you work out how to fit the thing?	怎么运输？怎么教人如何使用？
How do you have people realizing that they have a vision problem?	怎么让人们意识到他们有视力问题？
How do you deal with the industry?	怎么处理工业生产的问题？
And the answer to that is research.	答案就是研究
What we've done is to set up the Center for Vision in the Developing World here in the university.	我们已经建立了发展中国家视力中心 在这所大学里
If you want to know more, just come have a look at our website. Thank you.	如果想进一步了解，请登录我们的网站。谢谢。
Take a look at this drawing.	请看这幅图。
Can you tell what it is?	大家知道这是什么吗？
I'm a molecular biologist by training, and I've seen a lot of these kinds of drawings.	我是一个接受过训练的分子生物学家。 因此我已经看过了很多这类图片。
They're usually referred to as a model figure, a drawing that shows how we think a cellular or molecular process occurs.	他们通常被称作模型图片, 展示我们对细胞或分子过程 是如何进行的理解。
This particular drawing is of a process called clathrin-mediated endocytosis.	这幅图描述的是这样一个过程, 它叫网格蛋白介质的内吞。
It's a process by which a molecule can get from the outside of the cell to the inside by getting captured in a bubble or a vesicle that then gets internalized by the cell.	该过程是指一个分子可以 从细胞外转运入细胞内。 转入的方式是通过先被捕捉进小泡或囊中, 随后被细胞内在化。
There's a problem with this drawing, though, and it's mainly in what it doesn't show.	但这幅图有一个问题, 这个问题主要是这幅图所没有表现的东西。
From lots of experiments, from lots of different scientists, we know a lot about what these molecules look like, how they move around in the cell, and that this is all taking place in an incredibly dynamic environment.	从大量的实验中, 从大量不同的科学家身上, 我们对这些分子的样子, 它们是如何在细胞内移动的了解很多。 这些都发生在 一个不可思议的动态的环境中。
So in collaboration with a clathrin expert Tomas Kirchhausen, we decided to create a new kind of model figure that showed all of that.	因此，在与网格蛋白专家托马斯·科切豪斯合作中, 我们决定创造一个新的模型图片。 它可以展示所有的细节。
So we start outside of the cell.	于是我们从细胞外开始。
Now we're looking inside.	现在，我们看到的是内部。
Clathrin are these three-legged molecules that can self-assemble into soccer-ball-like shapes.	网格蛋白就是那些三条腿的分子。 它们可以自己组合成足球的形状。
Through connections with a membrane, clathrin is able to deform the membrane and form this sort of a cup that forms this sort of a bubble, or a vesicle, that's now capturing some of the proteins that were outside of the cell.	通过膜的相互连接, 网格蛋白可以使膜发生变形, 然后形成这种像杯子一样的形状 接着形成这种像小泡或小囊样的形状, 现在它正在捕捉一些 细胞外的蛋白质。
Proteins are coming in now that basically pinch off this vesicle, making it separate from the rest of the membrane, and now clathrin is basically done with its job, and so proteins are coming in now — we've covered them yellow and orange — that are responsible for taking apart this clathrin cage.	蛋白质正在进入，基本上掐断了小囊, 使得它从膜上分离开来。 现在，网格蛋白基本上已经完成了它的使命, 于是，蛋白质就进来了。 我们用黄色和橙色来标记它们。 它们负责将网格蛋白形成的笼子拆开,
And so all of these proteins can get basically recycled and used all over again.	于是所有这些蛋白质基本上都可以循环, 重新加以利用。
These processes are too small to be seen directly, even with the best microscopes, so animations like this provide a really powerful way of visualizing a hypothesis.	这些过程太小了以至于无法看到, 即使是用最好的显微镜, 因此，像这样的动画就提供了一个强大的工具 把一个假说可视化。
Here's another illustration, and this is a drawing of how a researcher might think that the HIV virus gets into and out of cells.	这是另一个例子, 这幅图展示了研究人员是如何猜想 艾滋病毒进入与离开细胞的。
And again, this is a vast oversimplification and doesn't begin to show what we actually know about these processes.	同样，这是一个极大的简化, 而且还没开始显示, 我们对这些过程实际的了解。
You might be surprised to know that these simple drawings are the only way that most biologists visualize their molecular hypotheses.	你可能会惊奇的发现, 这些简单的图画就是 绝大多数生物学家 可视化他们分子假说的唯一途径。
Why?	为什么？
Because creating movies of processes as we think they actually occur is really hard.	因为将我们认为实际上发生的过程 用电影的形式创作出来是非常困难的。
I spent months in Hollywood learning 3D animation software, and I spend months on each animation, and that's just time that most researchers can't afford.	我在好莱坞花了数个月学习三维动画软件。 每一个动画我都花了数月来制作。 这些时间对大多数研究员来说太长了。
The payoffs can be huge, though.	但是，回报也是巨大的。
Molecular animations are unparalleled in their ability to convey a great deal of information to broad audiences with extreme accuracy.	分子动画是前所未有的。 它们能向广大的观众 传达大量精准的信息。
And I'm working on a new project now called "The Science of HIV" where I'll be animating the entire life cycle of the HIV virus as accurately as possible and all in molecular detail.	我现在正从事一个新的项目, 它的名字叫"艾滋病病毒的科学"。 在这个项目中，我会尽可能准确地 将HIV病毒的整个生命周期用动画描绘出来， 所有的这些都会细致到分子级别。
The animation will feature data from thousands of researchers collected over decades, data on what this virus looks like, how it's able to infect cells in our body, and how therapeutics are helping to combat infection.	动画会取材于数千名科学家 在近几十年来收集的数据。 这些数据告诉我们这种病毒的形态, 它如何感染我们身体中的细胞, 以及如何对感染进行治疗。
Over the years, I found that animations aren't just useful for communicating an idea, but they're also really useful for exploring a hypothesis.	多年以来，我发现动画 不仅仅便于交流思想, 它们同样在 探索假说上发挥作用。
Biologists for the most part are still using a paper and pencil to visualize the processes they study, and with the data we have now, that's just not good enough anymore.	许多生物学家仍使用笔和纸 来将他们研究的过程可视化, 使用的也是我们目前已有的数据, 但这远远不够。
The process of creating an animation can act as a catalyst that allows researchers to crystalize and refine their own ideas.	创作动画的过程 可以像催化剂一样，让研究人员 把想法清晰化，使之完善。
One researcher I worked with who works on the molecular mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases came up with experiments that were related directly to the animation that she and I worked on together, and in this way, animation can feed back into the research process.	我与一位研究员合作过, 她的研究方向是 神经变性疾病的分子机理 她提出一些与动画有直接相关的实验， 于是我和她齐心协力, 这样，动画就能反馈到研究过程中。
I believe that animation can change biology.	我相信动画能够改变生物学。
It can change the way that we communicate with one another, how we explore our data and how we teach our students.	它可以改变我们与他人的交流方式, 我们如何分析数据, 以及我们如何教育学生。
But for that change to happen, we need more researchers creating animations, and toward that end, I brought together a team of biologists, animators and programmers to create a new, free, open-source software — we call it Molecular Flipbook — that's created just for biologists just to create molecular animations.	但要想这些改变发生, 我们需要更多的研究人员创作动画。 为实现这一目标，我召集了一支 由生物学家、动画师和程序员组成的团队。 开发了一款全新的、免费的、开源的软件。 我们称它为"分子原始动画"。 它为生物学家而生, 专门用来创作分子动画。
From our testing, we've found that it only takes 15 minutes for a biologist who has never touched animation software before to create her first molecular animation of her own hypothesis.	测试显示，仅需要15分钟 一个从未接触动画软件的生物学家 就可以将她的假说猜想 创作成她的第一个分子动画。
We're also building an online database where anyone can view, download and contribute their own animations.	我们同时也建立了一个在线数据库, 任何人都可以查看、下载 以及上传他们自己的动画。
We're really excited to announce that the beta version of the molecular animation software toolkit will be available for download today.	我们非常激动地宣布 这款分子动画制作软件的测试版 今天就可以下载了。
We are really excited to see what biologists will create with it and what new insights they're able to gain from finally being able to animate their own model figures.	看到生物学家用它来创作东西 以及他们从自己创作的动画中 得到的启示 我们为此感到激动不已。
Thank you.	谢谢。
I'm a filmmaker.	我是一个电影制片人
For the last 8 years, I have dedicated my life to documenting the work of Israelis and Palestinians who are trying to end the conflict using peaceful means.	在过去的八年中 我全身心 投入到了 关于以色列人和巴勒斯坦人 用和平方式解决冲突的 纪录片拍摄中
When I travel with my work across Europe and the United States, one question always comes up: Where is the Palestinian Gandhi?	每当我为了工作了出差 无论在欧洲还是美国 我总碰到一个问题 巴勒斯坦的甘地在哪里
Why aren't Palestinians using nonviolent resistance?	为什么巴勒斯坦人 不采用非暴力抵抗
The challenge I face when I hear this question is that often I have just returned from the Middle East where I spent my time filming dozens of Palestinians who are using nonviolence to defend their lands and water resources from Israeli soldiers and settlers.	每当我听到这个问题就感到为难 因为这时 我往往才从中东工作回来 在那里 我的工作是 拍摄几十位巴勒斯坦人 他们通过非暴力的手段 保卫土地 和水资源 免受以色列士兵和定居者的剥夺
These leaders are trying to forge a massive national nonviolent movement to end the occupation and build peace in the region.	这些领导人正在努力 组织一场全国范围的大规模非暴力运动 来结束侵占 在这个地区建和平
Yet, most of you have probably never heard about them.	然而 大多数人 可能从来没有听说过他们
This divide between what's happening on the ground and perceptions abroad is one of the key reasons why we don't have yet a Palestinian peaceful resistance movement that has been successful.	真相与外界猜想 之间的隔阂 就是关键原因之一 解释为何 巴勒斯坦和平抵抗运动 尚未取得成功
So I'm here today to talk about the power of attention, the power of your attention, and the emergence and development of nonviolent movements in the West Bank, Gaza and elsewhere -- but today, my case study is going to be Palestine.	我今天来 谈论的是关注的力量 你们的关注的力量 以及约旦河西岸 加沙地带和其它地方 非暴力运动的兴起和发展 而今天 我案例分析的主角是巴勒斯坦
I believe that what's mostly missing for nonviolence to grow is not for Palestinians to start adopting nonviolence, but for us to start paying attention to those who already are.	我认为非暴力运动的成长 最欠缺的 并不是让巴勒斯坦人 开始进行非暴力运动 而是让我们开始关注 那些早已开始非暴力运动的人
Allow me to illustrate this point by taking you to this village called Budrus.	请容我带领你们进入这个村庄 来解释这个道理 这个村庄叫布德鲁斯
About seven years ago, they faced extinction, because Israel announced it would build a separation barrier, and part of this barrier would be built on top of the village.	大约七年前 这里的人们面临着灭顶之灾 以色列宣布它将筑起一堵围墙 而其中一段 将跨过这个村庄
They would lose 40 percent of their land and be surrounded, so they would lose free access to the rest of the West Bank.	村民将失去40%的土地 并被包围起来 失去从这里进入 约旦河西岸地区的自由
Through inspired local leadership, they launched a peaceful resistance campaign to stop that from happening.	在当地领导人的激励下 他们发动了一场和平抵抗运动 以避免发生这样的结果
Let me show you some brief clips, so you have a sense for what that actually looked like on the ground.	我给大家播放影片的一些片断 让你们大致了解 实地发生的情况
Palestinian We were told the wall would separate Palestine from Israel.	巴勒斯坦女子：他们说那堵围墙 会将巴勒斯坦和以色列分隔开来
Here in Budrus, we realized the wall would steal our land.	在布德鲁斯 我们意识到 那堵墙会抢占我们的土地
Israeli The fence has, in fact, created a solution to terror.	以色列男子：这堵围墙事实上 是防止恐怖行动的一项解决方法
Today you're invited to a peaceful march.	今天 我号召大家 加入一场和平的游行
You are joined by dozens of your Israeli brothers and sisters.	与你们并肩行动的 是几十位以色列兄弟姊妹
Israeli Activist: Nothing scares the army more than nonviolent opposition.	以色列行动主义者： 最令军队害怕的 就是非暴力抵抗
We saw the men trying to push the soldiers, but none of them could do that.	女子： 我们看到男人们 试图推开那些士兵 但是没有人成功
But I think the girls could do it.	而我认为姑娘们能够做到
Fatah Party Member: We must empty our minds of traditional thinking.	法塔赫组织成员：我们必须清空头脑中 传统的观念
Hamas Party Member: We were in complete harmony, and we wanted to spread it to all of Palestine.	哈马斯组织成员： 我们是完全和平的 我们希望让它遍及整个巴勒斯坦
Chanting: One united nation.	口号声：团结一致的民族
Fatah, Hamas and the Popular Front!	法塔赫 哈马斯 人民阵线
News Anchor: The clashes over the fence continue.	新闻主播：围墙附近的冲突仍在继续
Reporter: Israeli border police were sent to disperse the crowd.	记者：以色列边警受命驱逐抗议人群
They were allowed to use any force necessary.	他们被允许采用一切必要的强制手段
These are live bullets.	男子：他们正在开火
It's like Fallujah. Shooting everywhere.	这里就像费卢杰（伊拉克城市） 到处是枪声
Israeli Activist: I was sure we were all going to die.	以色列行动主义者：我知道我们是去送死
But there were others around me who weren't even cowering.	但是我身边的许多人没有一丝畏惧
Israeli A nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear].	以色列士兵：一场非暴力抗议 无法阻止我们建立这堵墙
Protester: This is a peaceful march.	抗议者：这是一场和平的示威游行
There is no need to use violence.	我们不需要使用暴力
Chanting: We can do it! We can do it!	口号声：我们必胜 我们必胜
We can do it!	我们必胜
Julia Bacha: When I first heard about the story of Budrus, I was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago, in 2003.	朱莉娅·帕夏：当我第一次 听说布德鲁斯的这段故事 我感到非常惊讶 全球媒体居然 没有报道在2003年 也就是七年以前所发生的 这一系列了不起的事件
What was even more surprising was the fact that Budrus was successful.	而更令人吃惊的是 布德鲁斯最终取得了胜利
The residents, after 10 months of peaceful resistance, convinced the Israeli government to move the route of the barrier off their lands and to the green line, which is the internationally recognized boundary between Israel and the Palestinian Territories.	经过长达10个月的和平抵抗运动 那里的居民 说服了以色列政府 将围墙从他们的土地迁出 转而迁到绿线上 也就是国际公认的 巴以领土分界线上
The resistance in Budrus has since spread to villages across the West Bank and to Palestinian neighborhoods in Jerusalem.	布德鲁斯的抵抗运动的影响 从此遍及 约旦河西岸的所有村庄 以及耶路撒冷境内的巴勒斯坦人居住区
Yet the media remains mostly silent on these stories.	然而 媒体对这些事件 几乎只字未提
This silence carries profound consequences for the likelihood that nonviolence can grow, or even survive, in Palestine.	这种漠视 给巴勒斯坦 非暴力运动的成长 甚至生存 产生了沉重的打击
Violent resistance and nonviolent resistance share one very important thing in common; they are both a form of theater seeking an audience to their cause.	暴力抵抗 和非暴力抵抗 有一个非常重要的共同点 两者像一个剧院 渴望吸引观众的青睐
If violent actors are the only ones constantly getting front-page covers and attracting international attention to the Palestinian issue, it becomes very hard for nonviolent leaders to make the case to their communities that civil disobedience is a viable option in addressing their plight.	如果暴力演员 总是领衔主演 将全球目光 聚焦巴勒斯坦问题 那么 非暴力领导人 就很难向他们的民众证明 和平的反抗 才是带他们脱离苦海的 可行方案
The power of attention is probably going to come as no surprise to the parents in the room.	在座为人父母的 估计对关注的力量 并不陌生
The surest way to make your child throw increasingly louder tantrums is by giving him attention the first time he throws a fit.	如果孩子第一次闹脾气 就得到父母的注意 那么你的孩子以后 肯定会闹得更厉害
The tantrum will become what childhood psychologists call a functional behavior, since the child has learned that he can get parental attention out of it.	闹脾气就会成为 儿童心理学家所说的 功能性行为 孩子学会 用这种方式引起父母的注意
Parents can incentivize or disincentivize behavior simply by giving or withdrawing attention to their children.	父母可以通过 关注或不予理睬 来鼓励或抑制此行为
But that's true for adults too.	而这也适用于成年人
In fact, the behavior of entire communities and countries can be influenced, depending on where the international community chooses to focus its attention.	事实上 社区和国家的行为 是能够受到影响而改变的 而这取决于 国际社会 选择关注的方面
I believe that at the core of ending the conflict in the Middle East and bringing peace is for us to transform nonviolence into a functional behavior by giving a lot more attention to the nonviolent leaders on the ground today.	我相信 解决中东地区的冲突 给这里带来和平 关键是 我们要通过 更多地关注 当地的非暴力领袖 来把非暴力行动转变为一种功能性行为
In the course of taking my film to villages in the West Bank, in Gaza and in East Jerusalem, I have seen the impact that even one documentary film can have in influencing the transformation.	在约旦河西岸 加沙地带以及东耶路撒冷地区拍摄那里的村庄时 我亲眼目睹了 区区一部纪录片 对行为转变所带来的影响
In a village called Wallajeh, which sits very close to Jerusalem, the community was facing a very similar plight to Budrus.	在离耶路撒冷很近的 一个名叫瓦拉杰的村子 那里的村民面临着 与布德鲁斯相似的困境
They were going to be surrounded, lose a lot of their lands and not have freedom of access, either to the West Bank or Jerusalem.	他们即将被包围起来 失去大片土地 无法自由进入 约旦河西岸或耶路撒冷
They had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention.	在进行了长达两年的非暴力抵抗之后 他们最终心灰意冷 因为他们没有得到任何人的注意
So we organized a screening.	于是我们在那里组织播放了纪录片
A week later, they held the most well-attended and disciplined demonstration to date.	一周之后 他们组织了一场在当时 参与人数最多 最有纪律的游行示威
The organizers say that the villagers, upon seeing the story of Budrus documented in a film, felt that there were indeed people following what they were doing, that people cared.	组织者们说 当村民在纪录片中看到 布德鲁斯的故事 他们感觉到 确实有人与他们志同道合 人们是在乎的
So they kept on going.	于是他们没有放弃
On the Israeli side, there is a new peace movement called Solidariot, which means solidarity in Hebrew.	以色列 有一个新的和平运动 被称为"索里德拉尔特" 在希伯来语中意为"团结一致"
The leaders of this movement have been using Budrus as one of their primary recruiting tools.	布德鲁斯的故事成为了这个运动的领导者 招兵买马的主要手段之一
They report that Israelis who had never been active before, upon seeing the film, understand the power of nonviolence and start joining their activities.	他们反映说 那些从未加入任何运动的以色列人 看了纪录片之后 了解了非暴力抵抗的力量 并开始加入他们行动
The examples of Wallajeh and the Solidariot movement show that even a small-budget independent film can play a role in transforming nonviolence into a functional behavior.	瓦拉杰 和索里德拉尔特运动的例子 告诉我们 即使是小成本的独立电影 也能够帮助 非暴力抵抗 转变为一种功能性行为
Now imagine the power that big media players could have if they started covering the weekly nonviolent demonstrations happening in villages like Bil'in, Ni'lin, Wallajeh, in Jerusalem neighborhoods like Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan -- the nonviolent leaders would become more visible, valued and effective in their work.	想象一下 主流媒体若是开始报道 每周在贝拉因 尼亚林 瓦拉杰等村庄 以及耶路撒冷境内的 香克哈拉和西路万 巴勒斯坦居住区里 发生的非暴力示威活动 这将产生多么巨大的力量 更多的人会关注 非暴力运动领导者 重视他们 让他们的工作更有成效
I believe that the most important thing is to understand that if we don't pay attention to these efforts, they are invisible, and it's as if they never happened.	我相信 最重要的是 我们要认识到 如果我们不关注这些运动 它们就是隐形的 仿佛从来没有发生过
But I have seen first hand that if we do, they will multiply.	但我以亲身经历为证 如果我们关注 这些运动就会得到发展
If they multiply, their influence will grow in the overall Israeli-Palestinian conflict.	它们一旦发展 其影响力 就会遍及巴以冲突
And theirs is the kind of influence that can finally unblock the situation.	这种影响 能够最终 将冲突化解
These leaders have proven that nonviolence works in places like Budrus.	这些领导者证明了非暴力运动 在布德鲁斯这样的地方是可行的
Let's give them attention so they can prove it works everywhere.	我们一起来关注他们 让他们证明这在任何地方都是可行的
Thank you.	谢谢
	（众人鼓掌）
I'm going to give you four specific examples -- and I'm going to cover at the end -- about how a company called Silk tripled their sales by doing one thing, how an artist named Jeff Koons went from being a nobody to making a whole bunch of money and having a lot of impact, to how Frank Gehry redefined what it meant to be an architect.	我会给你们四个具体的实例来证明我的观点——并且最后我会进行总结—— 一家名叫丝绸的公司是怎样通过只做一件事就把他们的销售额提高到原来的三倍。 艺术家杰夫-昆斯是怎样从一个原来什么都不是 变成一个挣了一大堆钱并且十分有影响力的人， 弗兰克-盖里是怎样重新定义一个建筑师所代表的正真含义。
And one of my biggest failures as a marketer in the last few years, a record label I started that had a CD called "Sauce."	最为一个市场营销人员，在过去的几年中我犯得最大的错误之一就是， 创建了一个唱片公司，发行了一张叫"酱汁"的唱片。
Before I can do that I've got to tell you about sliced bread, and a guy named Otto Rohwedder.	在开始之前我得和你们说一个名叫奥托-罗韦德尔的家伙以及发生在他和切片面包之间的故事。
Now, before sliced bread was invented in the 1910s I wonder what they said?	好，1910年在切片面包被发明之前 我想知道那时的人们说了什么？
Like the greatest invention since ... the telegraph or something.	像之前的伟大发明一样，电报或者别的什么东西。
But this guy named Otto Rohwedder invented sliced bread, and he focused, like most inventors did, on the patent part and the making part.	当时这个名叫奥托-罗韦德尔的家伙发明了切片面包， 和大多数发明家所做的一样，他把所有的注意力集中在销售和制造上。
And the thing about the invention of sliced bread is this -- that for the first 15 years after sliced bread was available no one bought it; no one knew about it; it was a complete and total failure.	事实上关于切片面包这项发明当初是这样一个情况—— 最初15年里在人们可以得到它的情况下 没有人购买，没有人知道。它是一个彻头彻尾失败的发明。
And the reason is that until Wonder came along and figured out how to spread the idea of sliced bread, no one wanted it.	原因就在于Wonder牌面包出现之前， 在切片面包的理念走进千家万户之前，根本就没有人想要它。
That the success of sliced bread, like the success of almost everything we've been talking about at this conference, is not always about what the patent is like, or what the factory is like -- it's about can you get your idea to spread, or not.	其实切片面包的成功， 就像今天我们在这里讨论其他所有成功的事物一样， 它并不是总带着诸如它的专利是怎样的，或者它的工厂是怎样的疑问， 关键是你能不能把你的想法传播开来。
And I think that the way you're going to get what you want, or cause the change that you want to change, to happen, is that you've got to figure out a way to get your ideas to spread.	我认为得到你想要的， 改变你想改变的，你想让它发生的， 关键是你得想出一个能使你想法得到传播的方法。
And it doesn't matter to me whether you're running a coffee shop or you're an intellectual, or you're in business, or you're flying hot air balloons.	对我来说无论你正经营着一家咖啡馆 还是你是一个知识分子，或者你是一个商人，甚至你正驾驶着一个热气球在天上飞。
I think that all this stuff applies to everybody regardless of what we do.	这适用于任何你所从事的任何职业不管我们是干什么的。
That what we are living in is a century of idea diffusion.	我们正生活在一个想法蔓延的年代。
That people who can spread ideas, regardless of what those ideas are, win.	只有懂得传播想法的人才是赢家。
And when I talk about it I usually pick business because they make the best pictures that you can put in your presentation, and because it's the easiest sort of way to keep score.	通常说起它我就会拿做生意作为例子 因为我可以把最好看的剪贴画放到我的呈现中来 并且生意的成功与否很容易衡量
But I want you to forgive me when I use these examples because I'm talking about anything that you decide to spend your time to do.	但是当我使用这些例子的时候我希望你们能原谅我 因为我所说的一切都需要你们自己花时间去验证。
At the heart of spreading ideas is TV and stuff like TV.	想法传播的核心是电视和类似电视的东西。
TV and mass media made it really easy to spread ideas in a certain way.	某种程度上电视和大众传媒使得我们传播想法变得更加容易。
I call it the "TV-industrial complex."	我称之为电视工业中心。
The way the TV-industrial complex works, is you buy some ads -- interrupt some people -- that gets you distribution.	它的运作流程是这样的，首先你买了一些广告—— 它影响一些人——接着你得到客户。
You use the distribution you get to sell more products.	然后把更多的产品买给他们。
You take the profit from that to buy more ads.	最后赚了钱的你继续做更多的广告。
And it goes around and around and around, the same way that military-industrial complex worked a long time ago.	它就是这样不停地循环循环循环， 相同的方法我们的军工业已经用了很长时间。
And that model of, and we heard it yesterday, if we could only get onto the homepage of Google, if we could only figure out how to get promoted there, if we could only figure out how to grab that person by the throat, and tell them about what we want to do.	并且那样的模式，我们昨天就已经听说了， 如果我们能上谷歌的主页， 如果我们想办法在那里获得排名， 如果我们能抓住那些人的要害， 告诉他们关于我们想做的事。
If we do that then everyone would pay attention, and we would win.	如果我们那样做的话每个人都会引起注意，这样我们才有可能达到推广的目的。
Well, this TV-industrial complex informed my entire childhood and probably yours.	是的，这样的电视工业中心曾经鼓舞着我的整个童年或许还有你的。
I mean, all of these products succeeded because someone figured out how to touch people in a way they weren't expecting, in a way they didn't necessarily want, with an ad, over and over and over again until they bought it.	我的意思是，所有那些成功的产品是因为有些人知道 怎样用一种出人意料的方式与人建立起联系， 用一种未必需要一个广告的方法， 反反复复直到人们买下它。
And the thing that's happened is, they canceled the TV-industrial complex.	接着就发生了一件事，大家都把电视给关了。
That just over the last few years, what anybody who markets anything has discovered is that it's not working the way that it used to.	只是在最近几年里， 那些推销产品的人发现 以前的工作方法现在已经失效了。
This picture is really fuzzy, I apologize; I had a bad cold when I took it.	这张图片十分模糊，我很抱歉，那是我感冒时拍的。
But the product in the blue box in the center is my poster child.	中间蓝色盒子里的东西就是我想说的典型代表。
Right. I go to the deli; I'm sick; I need to buy some medicine.	对。我去了这家药店，我病了。我需要买一些药。
The brand manager for that blue product spent 100 million dollars trying to interrupt me in one year.	产品经理为那个装在蓝色盒子里的东西花了一亿美元 试着在一年内引起我的注意。
100 million dollars interrupting me with TV commercials and magazine ads and spam and coupons and shelving allowances and spiff -- all so I could ignore every single message.	用一亿美元制造出来的电视广告和杂志广告还有垃圾邮件 外加那些优惠券、限量供应、红利—— 那些所有我都可以直接忽略掉的单个信息。
And I ignored every message because I don't have a pain reliever problem.	于是我就把它们给忽略了因为在购买止疼药这一点上我没有任何疑问。
I buy the stuff in the yellow box because I always have.	我买了黄色盒子里的药因为我一直用它。
And I'm not going to invest a minute of my time to solve her problem, because I don't care.	我不打算从我的时间里抽出任何一分钟来解决她的问题， 因为我不关心。
Here's a magazine called "Hydrate." It's 180 pages about water.	这里有一本名叫《合成水》的杂志。它用了180页来谈论水。
Right. Articles about water, ads about water.	是的。那些关于水的文章，水的广告。
Imagine what the world was like 40 years ago when it was just the Saturday Evening Post and Time and Newsweek.	让我们想象一下40年以前的世界是什么样的 那时只有《周六晚报》、《时代周刊》和《新闻周刊》。
Now there are magazines about water.	现在居然出现了只谈论水的杂志。
New products from Coke Japan -- water salad.	这是来自可口可乐日本公司的新产品——色拉水。
OK. Coke Japan comes out with a new product every three weeks, because they have no idea what's going to work and what's not.	不错。每过三个星期，他们就会推出一款新产品。 因为他们完全不知道哪样产品会大卖，哪样不会。
I couldn't have written this better myself. It came out four days ago -- I circled the important parts so you can see them here.	接下来的这个更绝。四天前出来的。 我就圈出了关键的部分然后你可以在这里看到。
They've come out ... Arby's is going to spend 85 million dollars promoting an oven mitt with the voice of Tom Arnold, hoping that that will get people to go to Arby's and buy a roast beef sandwich.	它们来了……阿比汉堡打算花八十五亿美元来宣传一只隔热手套 用汤姆-阿诺德的声音， 希望那会使人走进阿比汉堡店买一个烤牛肉三明治。
Now, I had tried to imagine what could possibly be in an animated TV commercial featuring Tom Arnold, that would get you to get in your car, drive across town and buy a roast beef sandwich.	我在想，他们究竟要在一个动画电视广告里搞些什么鬼， 还要配搭上汤姆－阿诺德的声音，才能让你开着车， 穿过城，去买一个烤牛肉三明治。
Now, this is Copernicus, and he was right, when he was talking to anyone who needs to hear your idea.	看，这是哥白尼，他是对的， 他总是和一个需要听你想法的人说话。
The world revolves around me. Me, me, me, me, me. My favorite person -- me.	世界每天在围着我转，我，我，我，我，我。我最爱的一个人——就是我。
I don't want to get email from anybody; I want to get "memail."	我不想收到任何人的邮件，我只想收到"自己的邮件。"
So consumers, and I don't just mean people who buy stuff at the Safeway; I mean people at the Defense Department who might buy something, or people at, you know, the New Yorker who might print your article.	所以消费者，我指的不是那些在西夫韦卖场里买东西的人， 我指的是国防部里那些可能需要买一些东西的人， 或者那些供职于《纽约客》可能会打印你文章的人。
Consumers don't care about you at all; they just don't care.	消费者一点都不在乎你，他们就是不在乎。
Part of the reason is -- they've got way more choices than they used to, and way less time.	部分原因是——他们比过去有更多选择的机会， 和更少的时间。
And in a world where we have too many choices and too little time, the obvious thing to do is just ignore stuff.	在一个我们有太多选择 而时间有限的世界里，无疑我们会对有些东西视而不见。
And my parable here is you're driving down the road and you see a cow, and you keep driving because you've seen cows before.	打个比方来说，当你正在路上开车的时候 如果你看见一头母牛，然后你会继续开车 因为你之前见过母牛。
Cows are invisible. Cows are boring.	母牛是视而不见的。母牛是无趣乏味的。
Who's going to stop and pull over and say -- oh, look, a cow. Nobody.	谁会把车停在路边然后对人说——看，一头母牛。没有人会那样做。
But if the cow was purple -- isn't that a great special effect?	但如果那只母牛是紫色的话——那个特效挺酷吧？
I could do that again if you want it.	只要你愿意我可以重复一遍。
If the cow was purple, you'd notice it for a while.	如果那只母牛是紫色的，你可能就会留意它一段时间。
I mean, if all cows were purple you'd get bored with those, too.	我的意思是，如果所有的母牛都是紫色的，你同样会感到无趣。
The thing that's going to decide what gets talked about, what gets done, what gets changed, what gets purchased, what gets built, is: is it remarkable?	一件事它可以决定人们谈论什么， 做什么，改变什么， 购买什么，制造什么， 关键是——这是一件不同寻常的事吗？
And "remarkable" is a really cool word because we think it just means neat, but it also means -- worth making a remark about.	与众不同实在是一个十分酷的词因为我们常常把它理解为巧妙的意思， 它还意味着——值得我们去讨论。
And that is the essence of where idea diffusion is going.	这就是想法传播的本质。
That two of the hottest cars in the United States is a 55,000-dollar giant car, big enough to hold a mini in its trunk.	在美国所有热销的汽车中，两辆中的其中一辆是价值五万五千美元的大汽车， 大到足够在它的后备箱中再放入一辆小汽车。
People are paying full price for both, and the only thing they have in common is that they don't have anything in common.	人们愿意全额付款来购买它们，然而它们唯一的共同之处 就是没有任何共同之处。
Every week the number one best-selling DVD in America changes.	在美国每周DVD销量排行榜的第一名都在变化。
It's never "The Godfather;" it's never "Citizen Kane;" it's always some third rate movie with some second rate star.	不会永远都是《教父》，不会永远都是《公民凯恩》， 他们通常是一些三流电影配上二流影星
But the reason it's number one is because that's the week it came out.	但它成为第一名的原因仅仅是因为它是这周发行的。
Because it's new, because it's fresh.	因为它是新出的，因为它是新鲜的。
Because people saw it and said -- I didn't know that was there -- and they noticed it.	因为大家看见了都会说——我不知道它在那里—— 然后就会去留意它。
Two of the big success stories of the last 20 years in retail -- one sells things that are super-expensive in a blue box, and one sells things that are as cheap as they can make them.	近二十年零售业里两个最成功的故事—— 一个是把装在蓝色盒子里的东西卖得超贵， 另一个是尽可能地把他们制造出来的东西卖得更便宜。
The only thing they have in common is that they're different.	他们唯一的共同之处就是他们十分不同。
We're now in the fashion business, no matter what we do for a living, we're in the fashion business.	最近很流行做服装生意，为了生存不管我们做什么， 服装行业都会长盛不衰。
And the thing is, people in the fashion business know what it's like to be in the fashion business -- they're used to it.	有一件事就是，服装行业的人 知道这个行业会变成什么样子，因为他们早就习惯了。
The rest of us have to figure out how to think that way.	对于剩下的我们不得不想清楚应该怎样去思考。
How to understand that it's not about interrupting people with big full-page ads, or insisting on meetings with people.	怎样去理解这不是关于用整幅大页面广告去妨碍人们， 或者是坚持让别人看见。
But it's a totally different sort of process that determines which ideas spread, and which ones don't.	这是一个完全不同的方法来确定哪些想法会得到传播， 哪些没有。
This chair -- they sold a billion dollars' worth of Aeron chairs by reinventing what it meant to sell a chair.	这把椅子——是他们买了十个亿的艾龙铝合金椅子 因为他们颠覆了买卖椅子的含义
They turned a chair from something the purchasing department bought, to something that was a status symbol about where you sat at work.	椅子不再是采购部门随便买来的东西 而是你在工作场所身份的象征
This guy, Lionel Poilane, the most famous baker in the world -- he died two and a half months ago, and he was a hero of mine and a dear friend.	这个家伙，他叫莱昂内尔-普尔兰，全世界最有名的面包师—— 就在两个半月以前他刚刚去世， 他是我心目中的英雄和好朋友。
He lived in Paris. Last year he sold 10 million dollars' worth of French bread.	他住在巴黎。去年他总共卖出了价值一千万美元的法式面包。
Every loaf baked in a bakery he owned, by one baker at a time, in a wood-fired oven.	每条面包在他自己的面包房里进行烤制，一位面包师负责一条面包那样，在一个木质的烤箱里。
And when Lionel started his bakery the French pooh-pooh-ed it.	最初当莱昂内尔推出他的法式面包时法国人都很不屑。
They didn't want to buy his bread. It didn't look like "French bread."	他们不想买这种面包。它看起来不像"法国的面包。"
It wasn't what they expected.	这不是法国人想象中的面包。
It was neat; it was remarkable; and slowly it spread from one person to another person until finally, it became the official bread of three-star restaurants in Paris.	但正是因为这种面包的巧妙和与众不同，慢慢地它被人口相传 直到最后，它变成了巴黎三星级酒店的官方面包。
Now he's in London, and he ships by FedEx all around the world.	现在莱昂内尔生活在伦敦，而他的面包正被联邦快递运至世界各地。
What marketers used to do is make average products for average people.	过去我们的商家常常生产普通的商品给我们普通人。
That's what mass marketing is.	这就是大众营销。
Smooth out the edges; go for the center; that's the big market.	不管极端消费者，只管主流消费群 那确实是一个很大的市场。
They would ignore the geeks, and God forbid, the laggards.	但他们对极客， 对有特殊爱好的人，对落伍者均视而不见。
It was all about going for the center.	所有产品均向着中间这部分的人而去。
But in a world where the TV-industrial complex is broken, I don't think that's a strategy we want to use any more.	但是一个电视工业中心的世界正在离我们远去， 我认为这不再是一个我们会继续使用的销售策略。
I think the strategy we want to use is to not market to these people because they're really good at ignoring you.	我认为不需要把东西卖给那些 经常对你产品视而不见的人。
But market to these people because they care.	应该把东西卖给真正在乎和关心你产品的人。
These are the people who are obsessed with something.	那些热衷于某些东西的人。
And when you talk to them they'll listen because they like listening -- it's about them.	当你讲话他们就会听 因为他们喜欢听——去和他们交流。
And if you're lucky, they'll tell their friends on the rest of the curve, and it'll spread.	如果你足够幸运，他们会转告自己的朋友 那些在剩余曲线上的个体，然后它就会传播开来。
It'll spread to the entire curve.	最后蔓延至整个曲线。
They have something I call "otaku" -- it's a great Japanese word.	他们有一些东西我称之为御宅——这是一个伟大的日本单词。
It describes the desire of someone who's obsessed to say, drive across Tokyo to try a new ramen noodle place, because that's what they do: they get obsessed with it.	它是用来描述狂热的人 比方说，他们会大老远驾车穿过东京去品尝一款新推出的拉面， 因为那就是他们所做的。他们对此十分着迷。
To make a product, to market an idea, to come up with any problem you want to solve that doesn't have a constituency with an otaku, is almost impossible.	对于制造一个产品，营销一个想法， 提出任何你想解决问题的办法， 任何地方如果没有一群这样的御宅族 那几乎是行不通的。
Instead, you have to find a group that really, desperately cares about what it is you have to say.	反之，你不得不找出一群人， 那些真正地，不顾一切地愿意听你说话的人。
Talk to them and make it easy for them to tell their friends.	和他们交谈然后他们很容易就会把你的想法转告给朋友。
There's a hot sauce otaku, but there's no mustard otaku.	这里有一个喜欢辣酱宅男，但是没有喜欢芥末的宅男。
That's why there's lots and lots and lots of kinds of hot sauces, and not so many kinds of mustard.	这就是为什么会有许多许多许多种类的辣酱， 而没有许多种类的芥末。
Not because it's hard to make interesting mustard -- you can make interesting mustard -- but people don't because no one's obsessed with it, and thus no one tells their friends.	不是因为很难去生产有趣的芥末 ——你可以制造出有趣的芥末—— 但是没有人会对芥末着迷， 因此也没有人会把它告诉朋友。
Krispy Kreme has figured this whole thing out.	香脆甜甜圈就是一家已经把这些事都给弄明白的公司。
Krispy Kreme has a strategy, and what they do is, they enter a city, they talk to the people with otaku, and then they spread through the city to the people who've just crossed the street.	他们有一个策略，他们所做的是， 进入一个城市，和御宅族的人交流 就这样在城市蔓延 哪怕是正巧在过马路的人。
This yoyo right here cost 112 dollars, but it sleeps for 12 minutes.	这个溜溜球卖一百十二美元，但它在这只待了十二分钟。
Not everybody wants it but they don't care.	不是每个人都会喜欢但是他们不在乎这个。
They want to talk to the people who do, and maybe it'll spread.	他们只想告诉喜欢它的人，或许就能传播开来。
These guys make the loudest car stereo in the world.	这些家伙造出了世界上音量最大的车载音响。
It's as loud as a 747 jet. You can't get in the car; it's got bulletproof glass on the windows because they'll blow out the windshield otherwise.	它的声音可以媲美波音747，所以你进不去 这辆车装有防弹玻璃 不然的话它们可能会把挡风玻璃都给吹掉。
But the fact remains that when someone wants to put a couple of speakers in their car, if they've got the otaku or they've heard from someone who does, they go ahead and they pick this.	但事实依然告诉我们当有人 想把几个喇叭放进自己的汽车里时， 如果他们够宅 或者他们从哪里听说有人喜欢， 那么他们可以继续干下去而有人会为这辆车买单。
It's really simple -- you sell to the people who are listening, and maybe, just maybe those people tell their friends.	真的很简单——把东西卖给听你说话的人， 或许，仅仅是或许，那些人会说给他们的朋友听。
So when Steve Jobs talks to 50,000 people at his keynote, right, who are all tuned in from 130 countries watching his two-hour commercial -- that's the only thing keeping his company in business -- is that those 50,000 people care desperately enough to watch a two-hour commercial, and then tell their friends.	所以当史蒂夫-乔布斯在他的演讲上和五万人谈天说地的时候，没错， 那些来自一百三十个国家的人同时锁定同一个频道 一起观看他两个小时的商业演讲—— 这就是唯一能使他的公司正常运作的关键—— 有五万多个观众不顾一切地 看了他两小时的演讲，然后告诉他们的朋友。
Pearl Jam, 96 albums released in the last two years.	珍珠酱乐队，最近的两年里发行了九十六张专辑。
Every one made a profit. How?	并且每张专辑都赚到了钱。怎么会的？
They only sell them on their website.	他们只在自己的网站上卖这些专辑
Those people who buy them on the website have the otaku, and then they tell their friends, and it spreads and it spreads.	那些在网上购买专辑的人都是御宅族 然后宅男会告诉他们的朋友，就这样一直传播下去。
This hospital crib cost 10,000 dollars, 10 times the standard.	这辆医院专用的婴儿床卖一万美元，比普通的婴儿床贵十倍。
But hospitals are buying it faster than any other model.	但比起其他婴儿床医院却以更快的速度买下它们。
Hard Candy nail polish, doesn't appeal to everybody, but to the people who love it, they talk about it like crazy.	这是硬糖公司生产的指甲油，当然不会吸引到每一个人， 但只要碰上喜欢它的人，她们就会疯狂地谈论它。
This paint can right here saved the Dutch Boy paint company, making them a fortune. It costs 35 percent more than regular paint because Dutch Boy made a can that people talk about, because it's remarkable.	眼前的涂料拯救了荷兰男孩涂料公司， 最后变成他们的财富。它比一般涂料要贵百分之三十五 因为它们造出了一个人人都在谈论它的外壳，因为它与众不同。
They didn't just slap a new ad on the product; they changed what it meant to build a paint product.	不仅仅是他们在产品上扔出一个新的广告这么简单， 而是他们颠覆了传统意义上的油漆桶子。
AmIhotornot.com -- everyday 250,000 people go to this site, run by two volunteers, and I can tell you they are hard graders, and they didn't get this way by advertising a lot.	"我红不红"网站——每天都有二十五万的人光临， 网站由两个志愿者管理，我能告诉你他们是相当苛刻，可是 他们没有绞尽脑汁在上面放更多的广告
They got this way by being remarkable, sometimes a little too remarkable.	而是想办法使它变得不同寻常， 有些时候太过不同寻常了
And this picture frame has a cord going out the back, and you plug it into the wall.	这是一个带有电线的电子相框， 你可以把它插在墙上。
My father has this on his desk, and he sees his grandchildren everyday, changing constantly.	我父亲就有一个这样的东西在他的写字台上， 老人家每天看着自己不断长大的孙子。
And every single person who walks into his office hears the whole story of how this thing ended up on his desk.	而且每个来他办公室的人 都想知道到关于这个相框是怎样来到他桌上的故事。
And one person at a time, the idea spreads.	每次只要有一个这样的人，想法就会得到传播。
These are not diamonds, not really.	这不是钻石，不是真正的钻石。
They're made from "cremains."	它们由人的骨灰制成。
After you're cremated you can have yourself made into a gem.	在你被火化以后你也可以把自己的骨灰变成宝石。
Oh, you like my ring? It's my grandmother.	哦，你喜欢戒指吗？它可是我的祖母。
Fastest-growing business in the whole mortuary industry.	于是墓葬行业变得十分火爆。
But you don't have to be Ozzie Osborne -- you don't have to be super-outrageous to do this.	不过你不需要变成奥齐-奥斯本—— 你不必非得变得像他一样超级无耻来做这件事。
What you have to do is figure out what people really want and give it to them.	你所要做的是弄清楚人们想要什么然后给他们。
A couple of quick rules to wrap up.	这样的规则能快速总结出两三条。
The first one is: Design is free when you get to scale.	第一条是：当你达到一定规模使时设计就是免费的。
And the people who come up with stuff that's remarkable more often than not figure out how to put design to work for them.	那些发明不同寻常的东西的人 往往是那些懂得利用好的设计的人
Number two: The riskiest thing you can do now is be safe.	第二：墨守成规才是最有风险的事
Proctor and Gamble knows this, right?	宝洁公司很清楚，不是吗？
The whole model of being Proctor and Gamble is always about average products for average people.	作为典范整个宝洁公司 总是提供普通的产品给大家。
That's risky. The safe thing to do now is to be at the fringes, be remarkable.	那才是冒险的。而处在边缘的想法才是安全的， 与众不同的。
And being very good is one of the worst things you can possibly do.	感觉很棒可能是你所做的最糟糕的一件事之一。
Very good is boring. Very good is average.	很棒太无趣了。很棒太普通了。
It doesn't matter whether you're making a record album, or you're an architect, or you have a tract on sociology.	不管你是否正在录制一张专辑， 或者你是一个建筑师，还是你在社会学上有所建树。
If it's very good, it's not going to work, because no one's going to notice it.	如果一件事很棒，它就不会产生效应，因为没有人会去留意它。
So my three stories.	因此我有三个故事。
Silk. Put a product that does not need to be in the refrigerated section next to the milk in the refrigerated section.	首先是丝绸公司。他们将自己公司生产的不需要冷藏的产品 紧挨着牛奶冷藏区域放置。
Sales tripled. Why?	销售额就这样翻了三倍。为什么？
Milk, milk, milk, milk, milk -- not milk.	牛奶，牛奶，牛奶，牛奶，牛奶——不是牛奶。
For the people who were there and looking at that section, it was remarkable.	对于那些看着冷藏区域里的产品的人来说， 这样的陈设就立刻变得与众不同了。
They didn't triple their sales with advertising; they tripled it by doing something remarkable.	三倍的销售额他们没有做任何广告， 他们只是把产品挪了一下位置变得更惹眼而已。
That is a remarkable piece of art. You don't have to like it, but a 40-foot tall dog made out of bushes in the middle of New York City is remarkable.	这是一件与众不同的艺术品。你用不着去喜欢它， 但一个四十英尺高的用灌木做成的狗 竖立在纽约市中心确实很与众不同。
Frank Gehry didn't just change a museum; he changed an entire city's economy by designing one building that people from all over the world went to see.	弗兰克-盖里不仅仅改变了一个博物馆， 他改变了整个城市的经济 用他造的那个全世界人民都想去瞧一瞧的建筑。
Now, at countless meetings at, you know, the Portland City Council, or who knows where, they said, we need an architect -- can we get Frank Gehry?	如今，大会小会多得数不清，你知道， 波特兰市的办公大楼，有谁知道它在哪， 大家都说，我们需要一个建筑师——弗兰克-盖里能来吗？
Because he did something that was at the fringes.	因为他做了一些稀奇古怪的事。
And my big failure? I came out with an entire record album and hopefully a whole bunch of record albums in SACD format -- this remarkable new format -- and I marketed it straight to people with 20,000-dollar stereos.	是我犯的错吗？我拿出一整套 专辑，但愿他们全部是 SACD格式——这是一种全新的储存格式—— 然后我把它卖给一个家里放着两万美元立体声音响的人。
People with 20,000-dollar stereos don't like new music.	可他不喜欢这种新的音乐。
So what you need to do is figure out who does care.	所以你得搞清楚谁是真正关心你产品的人。
Who is going to raise their hand and say, "I want to hear what you're doing next," and sell something to them.	有哪些人会举起他们的手然后对你说， "我想知道接下来你准备干什么，" 把东西卖给他们。
The last example I want to give you.	这是最后一个我想给你们举的例子。
This is a map of Soap Lake, Washington.	这是一副肥皂湖的地图，在华盛顿。
As you can see, if that's nowhere, it's in the middle of it.	正如你所见，它是在一个寸草不生鸟不拉屎的地方
But they do have a lake.	但是他们确实是有这么一个湖
And people used to come from miles around to swim in the lake.	过去大家都会从几英里外赶来，为的就是能在里面游泳。
They don't anymore. So the founding fathers said, "We've got some money to spend.	可是现在不行了。所以我们的创办人说，"我们有钱。
What can we build here?" And like most committees, they were going to build something pretty safe.	但是我们造什么呢？"像大多数委员那样， 他们可能会造一些既好看又安全的东西。
And then an artist came to them -- this is a true artist's rendering -- he wants to build a 55-foot tall lava lamp in the center of town.	之后去了一个艺术家——这才是一个真正艺术家的作品—— 他想造一个五十五英尺高的熔岩灯放在市中心。
That's a purple cow; that's something worth noticing.	这是一头紫色的母牛，它们全部是一些值得留意的东西。
I don't know about you but if they build it, that's where I'm going to go.	我不知道你们但是如果它造好了，这就是我会去的地方。
Thank you very much for your attention.	谢谢所有在座的。
As a culture, we tell ourselves lots of stories about the future, and where we might move forward from this point.	在人类文明中，有很多关于未来的 故事， 也许正是这些故事激励我们前行。
Some of those stories are that somebody is just going to sort everything out for us.	在一些故事中 有些人努力去收集和利用所有事物。
Other stories are that everything is on the verge of unraveling.	在另一些故事中，所有事物都濒临灭亡。
But I want to tell you a different story here today.	但是我今天将带给你们一个不同的故事。
Like all stories, it has a beginning.	与所有故事一样，它也有一个开头。
My work, for a long time, has been involved in education, in teaching people practical skills for sustainability, teaching people how to take responsibility for growing some of their own food, how to build buildings using local materials, how to generate their own energy, and so on.	在很长一段时间，我一直潜心于教育事业， 教大家 可持续性实用技能， 比如 在自家种菜， 利用本地的材料建造房子， 挖掘本地的能量源等等，这些都是为了帮助人们更好的承担责任。
I lived in Ireland, built the first straw-bale houses in Ireland, and some cob buildings and all this kind of thing.	我生活在爱尔兰，在那儿我建造了第一个稻草屋， 和一些圆形建筑以及类似的。
But all my work for many years was focused around the idea that sustainability means basically looking at the globalized economic growth model, and moderating what comes in at one end, and moderating the outputs at the other end.	很多年来我的工作都集中在 一个想法--可持续性， 它意味着：着眼于 全球经济增长模型， 既监控着自身就有的东西， 也监控着所产出排出的东西，
And then I came into contact with a way of looking at things which actually changed that profoundly.	然后我就开始接触并以长远的目光观察 在实际中变化巨大的这一切。
And in order to introduce you to that, I've got something here that I'm going to unveil, which is one of the great marvels of the modern age.	为了介绍清楚， 在这里我打算揭开 一个当代伟大奇迹的发现。
And it's something so astounding and so astonishing that I think maybe as I remove this cloth a suitable gasp of amazement might be appropriate.	它是如此惊天动地， 我想我还是先揭开它的面纱， 并好好喘口气，然后再告诉大家比较合适。
If you could help me with that it would be fantastic.	如果你们能帮我一把，那就完美了。
This is a liter of oil.	这儿有一升石油。
This bottle of oil, distilled over a hundred million years of geological time, ancient sunlight, contains the energy equivalent of about five weeks hard human manual labor -- equivalent to about 35 strong people coming round and working for you.	这瓶油 提炼取自上亿年前的地质， 经过远古的阳光照射， 它饱含的能量相当于5周的 艰苦的体力劳动， 也相当于35个壮劳力 为你服务。
We can turn it into a dazzling array of materials, medicine, modern clothing, laptops, a whole range of different things.	我们可以用石油再加工成琳琅满目的新材料： 药物，现代纺织料， 笔记本电脑，还有其他不同的材料。
It gives us an energy return that's unimaginable, historically.	石油给予我们的历史发展中所需的无法想象的能量循环。
We've based the design of our settlements, our business models, our transport plans, even the idea of economic growth, some would argue, on the assumption that we will have this in perpetuity.	我们赖以生存的社区设计， 经济学模型，旅游计划， 甚至经济增长的观点，可能有些人会怀疑， 假设我们将会永久持续使用石油。
Yet, when we take a step back, and look over the span of history, at what we might call the petroleum interval, it's a short period in history where we've discovered this extraordinary material, and then based a whole way of life around it.	如果我们退一步看， 整个人类历史， 我们所谓的石油时代， 仅仅是历史的一小段， 从我们发现这个特别的材料， 到完全依赖石油。
But as we straddle the top of this energy mountain, at this stage, we move from a time where our economic success, our sense of individual prowess and well-being is directly linked to how much of this we consume, to a time when actually our degree of oil dependency is our degree of vulnerability.	但现在当我们处在能源的顶峰， 过去，我们的经济成功， 个人能力和福利 直接取决于我们消耗的石油的多少。 到现在我们对石油的依赖 正是我们的弱点。
And it's increasingly clear that we aren't going to be able to rely on the fact that we're going to have this at our disposal forever.	越来越清晰的表明：我们 永远基于石油的事实 是站不住脚的。
For every four barrels of oil that we consume, we only discover one.	我们每消耗4桶石油， 却只能发现1桶。
And that gap continues to widen.	这个差距越来越大。
There is also the fact that the amount of energy that we get back from the oil that we discover is falling.	事实是我们从石油中得到的能源 正在减少。
In the 1930s we got 100 units of energy back for every one that we put in to extract it.	在1930年代，我们每个人可以从提炼石油中 得到100单位的能源。
Completely unprecedented, historically.	这是空前的，历史上最多的，
Already that's fallen to about 11.	现在，能源利用值降低为11。
And that's why, now, the new breakthroughs, the new frontiers in terms of oil extraction are scrambling about in Alberta, or at the bottom of the oceans.	就是为什么现在， 石油萃取的新突破技术，新边疆的 争夺如此激烈，不管是在Alberta地区， 还是在海底。
There are 98 oil-producing nations in the world.	世界上有98个石油生产国，
But of those, 65 have already passed their peak.	但，其中65个已经超过了开采的峰值。
The moment when the world on average passes this peak, people wonder when that's going to happen.	世界平均开采早晚都会超过这个峰值， 人们只是想知道什么时候发生。
And there is an emerging case that maybe that was what happened last July when the oil prices were so high.	一个紧急例子是 去年7月份发生的 油价高峰。
But are we to assume that the same brilliance and creativity and adaptability that got us up to the top of that energy mountain in the first place is somehow mysteriously going to evaporate when we have to design a creative way back down the other side?	但人类的智慧， 创造力、适应力 使我们第一次到达了能源的顶峰， 当我们不得不在能源低谷探索时， 这种智慧、创造力和适应力却莫名其妙地突然神秘蒸发了？
No. But the thinking that we have to come up with has to be based on a realistic assessment of where we are.	不是的。而是伴随这个想法的 基础是基于一个现实的假设， 我们已经达到了开采巅峰。
There is also the issue of climate change, is the other thing that underpins this transition approach.	面对气候变化时， 也同样支持了这种转变方法。
But the thing that I notice, as I talk to climate scientists, is the increasingly terrified look they have in their eyes, as the data that's coming in, which is far ahead of what the IPCC are talking about.	当我和气候学家讨论时，我注意到 他们眼里与日俱增的恐惧， 伴随着最近的更新数据， 要比IPCC（联合国政府间气候变化专门委员会）讨论中的数据更有说服力，
So the IPCC said that we might see significant breakup of the arctic ice in 2100, in their worst case scenario.	IPCC的结论是： 我们可以预见2100年 在最坏的情况下，北极冰川严重断裂。
Actually, if current trends continue, it could all be gone in five or 10 years' time.	事实上，如果目前的趋势继续恶化， 它将在5年或者10年内发生。
If just three percent of the carbon locked up in the arctic permafrost is released as the world warms, it would offset all the savings that we need to make, in carbon, over the next 40 years to avoid runaway climate change.	如果北极永冻土中包含二氧化碳的3%， 在全球变暖中释放， 它将抵消我们所有为减少二氧化碳所做的努力， 在未来的40年间防范难以捉摸的气候变化。
We have no choice other than deep and urgent decarbonization.	除了我们深入实施紧急的二氧化碳减排，我们没有其他选择。
But I'm always very interested to think about what might the stories be that the generations further down the slope from us are going to tell about us.	但我一直很感兴趣地思考 故事可能是这样的： 我们以后的几代人 将会告诉我们。
"The generation that lived at the top of the mountain, that partied so hard, and so abused its inheritance."	"后代们生活在山顶， 忍受艰难，他们的遗产也很可怜。"
And one of the ways I like to do that is to look back at the stories people used to tell before we had cheap oil, before we had fossil fuels, and people relied on their own muscle, animal muscle energy, or a little bit of wind, little bit of water energy.	我喜欢的方法之一是 回首往事时人们通常这么说： 在拥有便宜的汽油和化石燃料之前， 人们依赖于他们的肌肉，动物肌肉中的能量， 或者一些风能，一些水能。
We had stories like "The Seven-League Boots": the giant who had these boots, where, once you put them on, with every stride you could cover seven leagues, or 21 miles, a kind of travel completely unimaginable to people without that kind of energy at their disposal.	我们有"七联赛靴"的故事： 一旦巨人穿上这样的靴子， 每迈出一步就可以完成7联赛，或者21英里， 对于没有这种功能靴子的人们来说， 这是一种完全无法想象的旅程。
Stories like The Magic Porridge Pot, where you had a pot where if you knew the magic words, this pot would just make as much food as you liked, without you having to do any work, provided you could remember the other magic word to stop it making porridge.	还有神奇魔术锅的故事， 如果你知道魔语，你可以让一个魔术锅 不断地做出你想要的食物， 当然你也不用动手。 假如你记得其他咒语，就可以停止做燕麦粥。
Otherwise you'd flood your entire town with warm porridge.	否则，整个城市将被温燕麦粥淹没。
There is the story of "The Elves and the Shoemaker."	还有一个"鞋匠和小矮人"的故事。
The people who make shoes go to sleep, wake up in the morning, and all the shoes are magically made for them.	鞋匠晚上没做完鞋就睡着了，当他早上睡醒的时候， 却发现所有的鞋子都神奇地做好了。
It's something that was unimaginable to people then.	对人类来说，这真是不可思议。
Now we have the seven-league boots in the form of Ryanair and Easyjet.	现在，有Ryanair和Easyjet飞机形式的 七联赛靴。
We have the magic porridge pot in the form of Walmart and Tesco.	也有类似神奇魔术锅（格林童话神奇锅） 的Walmart和Tesco大型超市。
And we have the elves in the form of China.	还有就好比小矮人一样的中国。
But we don't appreciate what an astonishing thing that has been.	但是我们不欢迎这些令人吃惊的 正发生的事情。
And what are the stories that we tell ourselves now, as we look forward about where we're going to go.	现在我们要讲的 正是我们期盼的关于前途的问题。
And I would argue that there are four. There is the idea of business as usual, that the future will be like the present, just more of it.	我认为，有4个方向。通常的商业想法是 未来仅仅是现在的延续，甚至是更好。
But as we've seen over the last year, I think that's an idea that is increasingly coming into question.	但回顾去年，我认为那个想法 正在成为一个问题。
And in terms of climate change, is something that is not actually feasible.	从气候变化来看， 事实上这有点行不通。
There is the idea of hitting the wall, that actually somehow everything is so fragile that it might just all unravel and collapse.	还有一个碰壁的想法， 所有东西都变得很脆弱， 即将瓦解，全部崩溃。
This is a popular story in some places.	在一些地方，这种观点比较普遍。
The third story is the idea that technology can solve everything, that technology can somehow get us through this completely.	第三种想法是：科技可以解决所有问题。 科技可以带领我们完全客服困难。
And it's an idea that I think is very prevalent at these TED Talks, the idea that we can invent our way out of a profound economic and energy crisis, that a move to a knowledge economy can somehow neatly sidestep those energy constraints, the idea that we'll discover some fabulous new source of energy that will mean we can sweep all concerns about energy security to one side, the idea that we can step off neatly onto a completely renewable world.	我认为，这种观点在TED讨论者中比较普遍， 我们发明一种方法走出严峻的 经济和能源危机， 一种知识经济运动可以 远离能源束缚。 有观点是我们发现一些极好的新能源， 使得我们可以对 能源安全问题搁置一边， 我们可以轻松地迈入到 一个全新的可再生能源的世界。
But the world isn't Second Life.	但世界并非第二人生。
We can't create new land and new energy systems at the click of a mouse.	我们不能凭简单地点击鼠标，然后创造出了新大陆和新能源体系。
And as we sit, exchanging free ideas with each other, there are still people mining coal in order to power the servers, extracting the minerals to make all of those things.	当我们坐在这里，彼此自由交流思想的时候， 仍然有人在挖煤， 目的是提取矿物质，为一些服务提供能量， 使它们运转。
The breakfast that we eat as we sit down to check our email in the morning is still transported at great distances, usually at the expense of the local, more resilient food systems that would have supplied that in the past, which we've so effectively devalued and dismantled.	当我们早上坐下来， 查收我们邮件的时候， 早餐正从很远地方运来， 这通常影响了当地的，自给自足，更具恢复性的 餐饮系统，这种餐饮系统长久以来就有， 而我们却有效低估，甚至让这种餐饮系统消失。
We can be astonishingly inventive and creative.	我们可以惊人地去创造，
But we also live in a world with very real constraints and demands.	但我们生存在受现实约束的世界中。
Energy and technology are not the same thing.	能源和科技不是同一个事物。
What I'm involved with is the transition response.	我潜心于转变响应的积极措施。
And this is really about looking the challenges of peak oil and climate change square in the face, and responding with a creativity and an adaptability and an imagination that we really need.	这是当前关于 石油开采峰值和气候变化的巨大挑战， 以及创造性和适应性和 我们迫切所需的想象力的响应。
It's something which has spread incredibly fast.	转变响应以惊人的速度传播。
And it is something which has several characteristics.	它具有多种特征，
It's viral. It seems to spread under the radar very, very quickly.	像病毒一样，好似在雷达下的快速传播。
It's open source. It's something which everybody who's involved with it develops and passes on as they work with it.	它是开源的。每个潜心于转变发展的人， 在工作中传递。
It's self-organizing. There is no great central organization that pushes this; people just pick up an idea and they run with it, and they implement it where they are.	自我组织，没有庞大的中央组织 去推动；人们仅仅有了一个想法 并且运行，贯彻执行。
It's solutions-focused. It's very much looking at what people can do where they are, to respond to this.	集中解决问题。关注人们能够做什么， 设身处地的进行转变响应。
It's sensitive to place and to scale.	就不同地方和规模都会有出入。
Transitional is completely different.	转变也就完全不同。
Transition groups in Chile, transition groups in the U.S., transition groups here, what they're doing looks very different in every place that you go to.	智利的转变小组，美国的转变小组，这里的转变小组， 你去的每个地方，大家的看法都不一样。
It learns very much from its mistakes.	从错误中可以学习到很多。
And it feels historic. It tries to create a sense that this is a historic opportunity to do something really extraordinary.	这转变很有历史影响。它创造一种 历史性的机会 让人们去做不同寻常的事情。
And it's a process which is really joyful.	在此过程中的确充满乐趣。
People have a huge amount of fun doing this, reconnecting with other people as they do it.	身体力行的人们感到无限乐趣， 人们也乐于联系在一起做这些转变。
One of the things that underpins it is this idea of resilience.	支撑上述观点的是可恢复性理论。
And I think, in many ways, the idea of resilience is a more useful concept than the idea of sustainability.	我认为，在多方面，这种可恢复性理论 比可持续理论更有用。
The idea of resilience comes from the study of ecology.	可恢复性理论源于生态学，
And it's really about how systems, settlements, withstand shock from the outside.	是关于系统， 安居置业，如何抵挡外部冲击。
When they encounter shock from the outside that they don't just unravel and fall to pieces.	当他们遇到外部冲击时， 他们不只是分解，或者崩溃。
And I think it's a more useful concept than sustainability, as I said.	我认为可恢复性理论比可持续理论更有用，正如我所说。
When our supermarkets have only two or three days' worth of food in them at any one time, often sustainability tends to focus on the energy efficiency of the freezers and on the packaging that the lettuces are wrapped up in.	在任何时候，当超市只有2，3天的食物储备时， 通常可持续理论关注于 冰箱的能效， 和包裹生菜的包装。
Looking through the lens of resilience, we really question how we've let ourselves get into a situation that's so vulnerable.	从可恢复性理论角度看， 我们从根本上质疑我们竟依赖于这种 如此脆弱的超市消费模式。
Resilience runs much deeper: it's about building modularity into what we do, building surge breakers into how we organize the basic things that support us.	可恢复性理论可以更广泛地运作： 它是基于我们所要转变的模块化建设， 和我们怎样组织生产自给自足必需品的转变社区建立。
This is a photograph of the Bristol and District Market Gardeners Association, in 1897.	这是布里斯托尔市Bristol和湖区District的照片， 1897年，农业菜园市场协会Market Gardeners Association成立。
This is at a time when the city of Bristol, which is quite close to here, was surrounded by commercial market gardens, which provided a significant amount of the food that was consumed in the town, and created a lot of employment for people, as well.	当时，布里斯托尔市Bristol 就在这个附近， 周围是商业市场菜园， 提供给城市所需的大量食物， 也创造很多就业机会，等等。
There was a degree of resilience, if you like, at that time, which we can now only look back on with envy.	这就是可恢复性的一个例子，希望你们喜欢， 我们现在只能带着羡慕的眼光回首那时。
So how does this transition idea work?	因此，这个转变的想法如何运作？
So basically, you have a group of people who are excited by the idea.	大体上有很多人为这个想法而兴奋不已。
They pick up some of the tools that we've developed.	他们使用我们开发的一些工具，
They start to run an awareness-raising program looking at how this might actually work in the town.	他们开始一个"awareness-raising提高认识"的计划， 在城镇中测试实际转变运作情况。
They show films, they give talks, and so on.	他们观看电影，开展讨论等等。
It's a process which is playful and creative and informative.	这个转变过程有趣而富有创造力， 并增长见识。
Then they start to form working groups, looking at different aspects of this, and then from that, there emerge a whole lot of projects which then the transition project itself starts to support and enable.	然后他们开始组建工作组，分别负责不同的方面， 因此基于此，形成了很多转变项目， 然后转变项目本身 开始运行和完善。
So it started out with some work I was involved in in Ireland, where I was teaching, and has since spread.	在爱尔兰我开始了相关的工作， 爱尔兰是我教学的地方，也是工作开展的地方。
There are now over 200 formal transition projects.	目前已经有超过200个正式的转变项目。
And there are thousands of others who are at what we call the mulling stage.	在我们所谓的酝酿阶段，有过千的工作人员。
They are mulling whether they're going to take it further.	他们正在酝酿方案将来的可行性。
And actually a lot of them are doing huge amounts of stuff.	实际上大部分人做了大量的的工作。
But what do they actually do? You know, it's a kind of nice idea, but what do they actually do on the ground?	但他们实际上做什么呢？大家知道，这是一个新颖的想法， 但他们付诸的实际情况如何？
Well, I think it's really important to make the point that actually you know, this isn't something which is going to do everything on its own.	因此，我认为重申这一点非常重要， 实际上大家知道，转变不是一个自身就能完成所有工作。
We need international legislation from Copenhagen and so on.	我们需要哥本哈根大会的国际立法等等。
We need national responses. We need local government responses.	我们需要得到国内的响应，本地政府的响应。
But all of those things are going to be much easier if we have communities that are vibrant and coming up with ideas and leading from the front, making unelectable policies electable, over the next 5 to 10 years.	但所有事情都会变得非常简单， 如果我们有活跃的社区以及最新的想法交流， 然后领导转变响应，使得相关政策通过候选立法， 在接下来的5到10年。
Some of the things that emerge from it are local food projects, like community-supported agriculture schemes, urban food production, creating local food directories, and so on.	自然而然的就有一些当地的食物项目， 例如社区团体支持的农业计划， 城乡食物计划，当地食物目录等等。
A lot of places now are starting to set up their own energy companies, community-owned energy companies, where the community can invest money into itself, to start putting in place the kind of renewable energy infrastructure that we need.	目前很多地方都开始建立自己的能源工厂， 社区自建能源工厂， 由社区独立投资， 开始建立 可再生能源基础设施，这正是我们需要的。
A lot of places are working with their local schools.	在许多地方，学校也参与进来。
Newent in the Forest of Dean: big polytunnel they built for the school; the kids are learning how to grow food.	位于迪恩森林国家公园附近的Newent市：人们在学校建起大型保温棚， 孩子们学习如何种植食物。
Promoting recycling, things like garden-share, that matches up people who don't have a garden who would like to grow food, with people who have gardens they aren't using anymore.	提倡再循环利用，例如菜园共享， 使得没有菜园的人们 可以在被人闲置的菜园地方，种植食物。
Planting productive trees throughout urban spaces.	在广阔的城乡种植经济树木。
And also starting to play around with the idea of alternative currencies.	同时开始推广 可替换的流通货币的想法。
This is Lewes in Sussex, who have recently launched the Lewes Pound, a currency that you can only spend within the town, as a way of starting to cycle money within the local economy.	这是在苏塞克斯Sussex的刘易斯市Lewes 最近投放上市的刘易斯英镑， 它只能在当地流通， 成为了当地循环经济的开始。
You take it anywhere else, it's not worth anything.	而你在其他地方用这种货币，它就一文不值了。
But actually within the town you start to create these economic cycles much more effectively.	但实际上这种循环经济模式在当地 非常有效。
Another thing that they do is what we call an energy descent plan, which is basically to develop a plan B for the town.	他们做的另一件事，我们称之为节约能源计划， 是为城镇而开发的另一个B计划。
Most of our local authorities, when they sit down to plan for the next five, 10, 15, 20 years of a community, still start by assuming that there will be more energy, more cars, more housing, more jobs, more growth, and so on.	但我们大部分当地政府开始着手 未来5年，10年，15年到20年计划时， 还都理所当然地认为会有更多石油能源， 更多汽车，更多房屋， 更多工作，更多增长等等。
What does it look like if that's not the case? And how can we embrace that and actually come up with something that was actually more likely to sustain everybody?	如果情况不是那样，会怎样呢？我们又该如何接受 现实中想到的事情真的很有可能 来养活大家？
As a friend of mine says, "Life is a series of things you're not quite ready for."	我的一个朋友说：生活是由一系列你完全没有准备好的事情组成的。
And that's certainly been my experience with transition.	那也正是我亲身经历的转变，
From three years ago, it just being an idea, this has become something that has virally swept around the world.	在3年前，它仅仅是一个想法， 这转变已经快速风靡世界。
We're getting a lot of interest from government. Ed Miliband, the energy minister of this country, was invited to come to our recent conference as a keynote listener.	这也吸引了政府议员，这个国家能源部长埃德米利班德Ed Miliband的兴趣， 我们邀请他参加我们最近的会议 作为一个演讲听众。
Which he did -- -- and has since become a great advocate of the whole idea.	他 并从此成为整个转变想法的极力提倡者。
There are now two local authorities in this country who have declared themselves transitional local authorities, Leicestershire and Somerset. And in Stroud, the transition group there, in effect, wrote the local government's food plan.	这个国家目前有两个当地政府 声明它们要转变为不依赖石油的当地政府， 莱斯特郡Leicestershiere 和萨默塞特郡Somerset。在斯特劳德市Stroud 转变组真的为当地政府起草了食物计划。
And the head of the council said, "If we didn't have Transition Stroud, we would have to invent all of that community infrastructure for the first time."	委员会主席说， "如果我们没有转变斯特劳德市Transition Stround，我们也得首次创新 所有社区的基础设施。"
As we see the spread of it, we see national hubs emerging.	正如我们看到的转变响应的蔓延，国家的转变提上议程。
In Scotland, the Scottish government's climate change fund has funded Transition Scotland as a national organization supporting the spread of this.	在苏格兰Scotland,Scottish苏格兰政府气候变化基金 已投资转变苏格兰Transition Scotland 作为国家资助项目发展。
And we see it all over the place as well now.	正如大家所见，目前所有地方都开展了。
But the key to transition is thinking not that we have to change everything now, but that things are already inevitably changing, and what we need to do is to work creatively with that, based on asking the right questions.	不过，转变的关键是我们现在没有改变所有， 但很多已经不可避免的改变了， 我们所做的就是创造性的开展工作， 提出正确的问题。
I think I'd like to just return at the end to the idea of stories.	我想我应该返回到 这个想法故事的结尾。
Because I think stories are vital here.	因为我认为这些故事比较生动和重要。
And actually the stories that we tell ourselves, we have a huge dearth of stories about how to move forward creatively from here.	我们自己谈论着实际中的故事， 除这里分享的，我们还缺乏大量故事来指导我们创新的转变。
And one of the key things that transition does is to pull those stories out of what people are doing.	关键的一点是 人们把他们做的这种转变创新的故事用来分享。
Stories about the community that's produced its own 21 pound note, for example, the school that's turned its car park into a food garden, the community that's founded its own energy company.	例如，社区可以自行生产 21英镑纸币， 把学校的汽车停车场转变为一个食物菜园地， 建立自己能源工厂的社区等等的故事。
And for me, one of the great stories recently was the Obamas digging up the south lawn of the White House to create a vegetable garden. Because the last time that was done, when Eleanor Roosevelt did it, it led to the creation of 20 million vegetable gardens across the United States.	对我来说，最近一个精彩的故事 是奥巴马夫妇在白宫南草坪 开辟蔬菜园地。因为上次这么做还要 提起埃莉诺罗斯福Eleanor Roosevelt， 它引领了全美2千万蔬菜菜园的兴建。
So the question I'd like to leave you with, really, is -- for all aspects of the things that your community needs in order to thrive, how can it be done in such a way that drastically reduces its carbon emissions, while also building resilience?	所以我留给你们的问题是， 为了你们社区繁荣，考虑所需的方方面面 的事情， 如何实施这种转变响应来 大幅降低二氧化碳排放， 又同时建立可恢复性的繁荣？
Personally, I feel enormously grateful to have lived through the age of cheap oil.	从我个人而言，我非常的感谢 我所经历过的廉价石油年代。
I've been astonishingly lucky, we've been astonishingly lucky.	我曾非常幸运，我们曾非常幸运。
But let us honor what it has bought us, and move forward from this point.	让我们为石油所提供给我们的一切感到荣幸， 但从现在起要转变改进。
Because if we cling to it, and continue to assume that it can underpin our choices, the future that it presents to us is one which is really unmanageable.	因为如果我们依然依靠石油，继续这样的消耗 支撑着我们的选择权， 我们所要面对的未来会越加难以驾驭。
And by loving and leaving all that oil has done for us, and that the Oil Age has done for us, we are able to then begin the creation of a world which is more resilient, more nourishing, and in which, we find ourselves fitter, more skilled and more connected to each other.	由热爱石油，到远离石油 和石油年代供给给我们的一切， 我们将开创 一个更具有可恢复性的， 更有活力的世界， 我们将发现人与人彼此间更加健康，更加优秀， 和联系的更加紧密。
Thank you very much.	非常感谢。
"People do stupid things.	"人会干傻事。
That's what spreads HIV."	于是HIV就传播开来。"
This was a headline in a U.K. newspaper, The Guardian, not that long ago.	这句话是一家英国报纸的头条， 不久之前出版的《卫报》。
I'm curious, show of hands, who agrees with it?	我很好奇，请大家举个手，谁同意这句话？
Well, one or two brave souls.	哦，有一两位勇士。
This is actually a direct quote from an epidemiologist who's been in field of HIV for 15 years, worked on four continents, and you're looking at her.	这句话实际上出自一位流行病学家之口 她研究HIV已有15年， 足迹遍布四大洲， 你们现在正看着她。
And I am now going to argue that this is only half true.	我现在想说明 这句话只说对了一半。
People do get HIV because they do stupid things, but most of them are doing stupid things for perfectly rational reasons.	有些人确实是因为做了傻事感染了HIV， 但是其中的大多数人虽然做这些傻事 却有完全合乎理智的原因。
Now, "rational" is the dominant paradigm in public health, and if you put your public health nerd glasses on, you'll see that if we give people the information that they need about what's good for them and what's bad for them, if you give them the services that they can use to act on that information, and a little bit of motivation, people will make rational decisions and live long and healthy lives.	"理智"是公共卫生的 首要准则。 现在你戴上公共卫生怪胎眼镜， 你便会知道如果你提供给人们必要的信息 告诉他们什么对他们好，什么不好， 如果你给他们必要的服务 使他们能对上述信息做出反应， 再加上一丁点的鼓励， 人们就会做出理智的决定 从此健康长寿。
Wonderful.	好极了。
That's slightly problematic for me because I work in HIV, and although I'm sure you all know that HIV is about poverty and gender inequality, and if you were at TED '07 it's about coffee prices ...	但对于像我这样研究HIV的人，有一点小麻烦， 虽然我确信大家都知道 HIV与贫穷和两性不平等有紧密的联系。 如果你参加了TED'07， 就知道HIV与咖啡的价格紧紧相关；
Actually, HIV's about sex and drugs, and if there are two things that make human beings a little bit irrational, they are erections and addiction.	实际上，HIV和性交，毒品脱不了干系。 如果说世上有两样东西 使人类丧失理智， 那就是勃起和上瘾。
So, let's start with what's rational for an addict.	那么，我们先说说瘾君子认为什么不和逻辑。
Now, I remember speaking to an Indonesian friend of mine, Frankie.	我曾经和一位印尼的朋友，Fankie，聊天。
We were having lunch and he was telling me about when he was in jail in Bali for a drug injection.	我们一起吃午餐，他跟我讲 他在巴里岛监狱里注射毒品的经历。
It was someone's birthday, and they had very kindly smuggled some heroin into jail, and he was very generously sharing it out with all of his colleagues.	那天是一个人的生日，他们偷偷将一些海洛因 弄进了监狱， 他非常大方地邀请牢房里的兄弟们 一起享用。
And so everyone lined up, all the smackheads in a row, and the guy whose birthday it was filled up the fit, and he went down and started injecting people.	于是每个人都排好队， 所有瘾君子排成一排。 过生日的那个人 准备好注射器， 蹲下身，开始给兄弟们注射海洛因。
So he injects the first guy, and then he's wiping the needle on his shirt, and he injects the next guy.	他给第一个兄弟注射后， 顺手用衣服擦擦针管， 再注射下一个。
And Frankie says, "I'm number 22 in line, and I can see the needle coming down towards me, and there is blood all over the place.	Frankie说："我是第22个， 我看见针管离我越来越近， 地上到处都是血。
It's getting blunter and blunter.	针管越来越钝。
And a small part of my brain is thinking, 'That is so gross and really dangerous,' but most of my brain is thinking, 'Please let there be some smack left by the time it gets to me.	我脑子里在想， "真是恶心死了 太危险了，" 但是我更关心的是， 拜托，拜托到我的时候 针管里还有点海洛因。
Please let there be some left.'" And then, telling me this story, Frankie said, "You know ... God, drugs really make you stupid."	拜托给我留一点。" 故事讲完后， Frankie说： "你知道，天， 毒品真能让你蠢到极点。"
And, you know, you can't fault him for accuracy.	而且，你知道，他这句话你挑不出一点毛病，
But, actually, Frankie, at that time, was a heroin addict and he was in jail.	但是Frankie那时， 是个瘾君子，而且他被关在监狱。
So his choice was either to accept that dirty needle or not to get high.	所以他只能选择 要么接受那血迹斑斑的针头，要么就没法过瘾。
And if there's one place you really want to get high, it's when you're in jail.	如果真有什么地方你确实很想过过瘾， 那就是监狱。
But I'm a scientist and I don't like to make data out of anecdotes, so let's look at some data.	但现在我是位科学家， 我不会用八卦故事当数据， 所以现在来看看数据。
We talked to 600 drug addicts in three cities in Indonesia, and we said, "Well, do you know how you get HIV?"	我们采访在印尼的三座城市的 600名瘾君子， 我们问他们："你知道你怎么感染HIV的吗？"
"Oh yeah, by sharing needles."	"哦，当然知道。共用一个针头。"
I mean, nearly 100 percent. Yeah, by sharing needles.	我是说，差不多100%，对，都是共用针头害的。
And, "Do you know where you can get a clean needle at a price you can afford to avoid that?"	我们又问："你知道在哪可以买到 干净又便宜的针头吗？"
"Oh yeah." Hundred percent.	100%的人都答道："哦，知道。"
"We're smackheads; we know where to get clean needles."	"我们吸毒，我们当然知道上哪儿去弄干净的针头。"
"So are you carrying a needle?"	"那你们会带着针头吗？"
We're actually interviewing people on the street, in the places where they're hanging out and taking drugs.	我们采访的那些地方就在街上， 瘾君子们聚集在一起服毒。
"Are you carrying clean needles?"	"你们带着干净的针头吗？"
One in four, maximum.	最多四分之一的人带着。
So no surprises then that the proportion that actually used clean needles every time they injected in the last week is just about one in 10, and the other nine in 10 are sharing.	所以也难怪 在上周每次注射时真正 使用干净针头的比例 只有十分之一。 另外十分之九共用一个针头。
So you've got this massive mismatch; everyone knows that if they share they're going to get HIV, but they're all sharing anyway.	你看，这前后矛盾。 每个人都知道 共用针头会感染HIV， 但是他们还是用一个针头。
So what's that about? Is it like you get a better high if you share or something?	这是为什么呢？是共用针头让你更过瘾吗？
We asked that to a junkie and they're like, "Are you nuts?"	我们这样问他们，他们说："你疯了？
You don't want to share a needle anymore than you want to share a toothbrush even with someone you're sleeping with.	你当然不会愿意和别人共用针头，就像你绝不愿意共一把牙刷， 就算他是你的情人也不行。
There's just kind of an ick factor there.	这是因为，你知道，ick的原因。
"No, no. We share needles because we don't want to go to jail."	不是，不是。我们共用针头因为我们不想进监狱。"
So, in Indonesia at this time, if you were carrying a needle and the cops rounded you up, they could put you into jail.	现在，在印尼 如果你被逮到藏有针头，就会被警察抓走， 丢进监狱.
And that changes the equation slightly, doesn't it?	这样看的话，情况就不一样了，对吗？
Because your choice now is either I use my own needle now, or I could share a needle now and get a disease that's going to possibly kill me 10 years from now, or I could use my own needle now and go to jail tomorrow.	因为这时你的选择就是， 要么用现在自己的针头， 要么现在和别人用一个针头 感染上病 过个十年因此而死， 或者我可以现在用自己的针头 明天就去蹲监狱。
And while junkies think that it's a really bad idea to expose themselves to HIV, they think it's a much worse idea to spend the next year in jail where they'll probably end up in Frankie's situation and expose themselves to HIV anyway.	虽然瘾君子们认为 置身于感染HIV的危险中绝不是什么好事， 但是在监狱里过一年 更加糟糕， 你很可能在监狱里遇上Frankie所说的情况 最终还是可能感染HIV。
So, suddenly it becomes perfectly rational to share needles.	这样，突然间，共用针头 就变得非常有道理了。
Now, let's look at it from a policy maker's point of view.	现在我们从政策决策者的角度看看这个问题。
This is a really easy problem.	实际上非常简单。
For once, your incentives are aligned.	终于有一次，大家达成了一致意见。
We've got what's rational for public health.	从公共卫生角度，我们得出了理性的答案。
You want people to use clean needles -- and junkies want to use clean needles.	我们希望瘾君子用干净的针头， 瘾君子也想用干净的针头。
So we could make this problem go away simply by making clean needles universally available and taking away the fear of arrest.	所以我们只用使瘾君子们能随时拿到针头 同时让他们不必担心被逮捕 就能解决这个问题。
Now, the first person to figure that out and do something about it on a national scale was that well-known, bleeding heart liberal Margaret Thatcher.	而第一个想出这一招 并在全国执行的人 就是大名鼎鼎的"铁娘子" 英国首相撒切尔夫人。
And she put in the world's first national needle exchange program, and other countries followed suit: Australia, The Netherlands and few others.	她推行了全球第一项 国家针头交换计划 其他国家竞相效仿，澳大利亚，荷兰和一小部分其他国家，
And in all of those countries, you can see, not more than four percent of injectors ever became infected with HIV.	在这些国家里，你们可以看到， 低于百分之四的吸毒人员 曾因注射而感染HIV。
Now, places that didn't do this -- New York City for example, Moscow, Jakarta -- we're talking, at its peak, one in two injectors infected with this fatal disease.	再看，没有实行这一政策的国家，比如纽约， 莫斯科，雅加达， 在峰值时， 每两个注射毒品的人中 就有一个感染了这种致命疾病。
Now, Margaret Thatcher didn't do this because she has any great love for junkies.	撒切尔首相做这些 不是因为她对瘾君子有恻隐之心，
She did it because she ran a country that had a national health service.	她这样做是她执政的国家 有国家免费医疗系统。
So, if she didn't invest in effective prevention, she was going to have pick up the costs of treatment later on, and obviously those are much higher.	所以，如果她不在有效疾病预防方面投资， 她以后就必须为疾病的治疗 付出昂贵的费用， 而且治疗的费用昂贵的多。
So she was making a politically rational decision.	所以她做出了一个政治上很理智的决定。
Now, if I take out my public health nerd glasses here and look at these data, it seems like a no-brainer, doesn't it?	现在，如果我带上我 公共卫生怪胎的眼镜， 再看看这些数据， 这完全不合逻辑。
But in this country, where the government apparently does not feel compelled to provide health care for citizens, we've taken a very different approach.	但是在这个国家， 政府显然不认为他们必须 为公民提供免费医疗， 我们于是采取了大相径庭的解决方法。
So what we've been doing in the United States is reviewing the data -- endlessly reviewing the data.	在美国，我们一直在做的事情是 验证数据，不断地验证。
So, these are reviews of hundreds of studies by all the big muckety-mucks of the scientific pantheon in the United States, and these are the studies that show needle programs are effective -- quite a lot of them.	于是上百个研究的数据 被大型的muckety-mucks 美国科学界圣人验证， 而大量的研究表明 针头计划是有效的。
Now, the ones that show that needle programs aren't effective -- you think that's one of these annoying dynamic slides and I'm going to press my dongle and the rest of it's going to come up, but no -- that's the whole slide.	再看，这些表明针头计划无效的研究 你们认为在这张烦人的幻灯片上， 我按一下手中的遥控器，剩下的数据就会出现， 但是，没有，这张幻灯片上就这么多内容。
There is nothing on the other side.	另外一栏什么也没有。
So, completely irrational, you would think.	那么，这完完全全没有道理。 你肯定这样想，
Except that, wait a minute, politicians are rational, too, and they're responding to what they think the voters want.	只是，等下，不对，政客们也是理智的， 而且他们所做的事情是他们认为选民们想做的。
So what we see is that voters respond very well to things like this and not quite so well to things like this.	我们看到的是选民们都 十分愿意回应这种情况 而不愿意回应这种情况。
So it becomes quite rational to deny services to injectors.	所以拒绝向瘾君子提供服务 就显得很有道理。
Now let's talk about sex.	现在来说说性交。
Are we any more rational about sex?	我们在性交上更理智吗？
Well, I'm not even going to address the clearly irrational positions of people like the Catholic Church, who think somehow that if you give out condoms, everyone's going to run out and have sex.	呃，我根本不会去评论 天主教徒们那些 完全不和逻辑的想法。 以为只要你免费发保险套， 人们就会出去找乐子。
I don't know if Pope Benedict watches TEDTalks online, but if you do, I've got news for you Benedict -- I carry condoms all the time and I never get laid.	我不知道本尼迪克特教皇 是否会在线看TED的演讲， 但是教皇，您看的话，我有话要跟您讲。 我随身带着保险套， 但从来没机会用。
It's not that easy!	这种机会可不容易找。
Here, maybe you'll have better luck.	接着，也许你的运气好一点。
Okay, seriously, HIV is actually not that easy to transmit sexually.	OK，严格地说， HIV不是很容易 通过性交传染。
So, it depends on how much virus there is in your blood and in your body fluids.	是否传染取决于你血液和体液所含的 病毒数量
And what we've got is a very, very high level of virus right at the beginning when you're first infected, then you start making antibodies, and then it bumps along at quite low levels for a long time -- 10 or 12 years -- you have spikes if you get another sexually transmitted infection.	当某人感染HIV后，在感染最初期 病毒含量非常，非常高， 然后你的身体开始产生抗体， 之后很长的一段时间内 10年或12年，病毒的含量都保持在相当低的水平， 如果你有与他人发生关系而受到感染，you have spikes ，
But basically, nothing much is going on until you start to get symptomatic AIDS, and by that stage, you're not looking great, you're not feeling great, you're not having that much sex.	但一般而言，在你开始出现艾滋病的 症状之前，不会发生什么。 而到了那一阶段，这里， 你会看起来很糟，感觉很不好， 不会发生很多性交。
So the sexual transmission of HIV is essentially determined by how many partners you have in these very short spaces of time when you have peak viremia.	所以通过性交感染HIV基本取决于 当你体内的病毒达到高潮时 的那一段非常短的时间段内 你有多少位同伴。
Now, this makes people crazy because it means that you have to talk about some groups having more sexual partners in shorter spaces of time than other groups, and that's considered stigmatizing.	这一来人们就要发疯了 因为这意味着你必须谈论 有些人在较短的时间内 比另外一些人有更多的同伴， 这样就太侮辱人了。
I've always been a bit curious about that because I think stigma is a bad thing, whereas lots of sex is quite a good thing, but we'll leave that be.	我一直都对此很好奇 因为我认为侮辱是件很不好的事情， 而然性交频繁却是件很好的事， 不过这事就这样吧。
The truth is that 20 years of very good research have shown us that there are groups that are more likely to turnover large numbers of partners in a short space of time.	事实是20年来 很出色的研究 告诉我们 有一些人更倾向于 在短时期内有很多伙伴，
And those groups are, globally, people who sell sex and their more regular partners.	而基本上这些人， 都是出卖色情，有更多的同伴，
They are gay men on the party scene who have, on average, three times more partners than straight people on the party scene.	在派对上的同性恋拥有的伙伴数量 平均比派对上的异性恋 多出两倍，
And they are heterosexuals who come from countries that have traditions of polygamy and relatively high levels of female autonomy, and almost all of those countries are in east or southern Africa.	还有些异性恋 他们来自的国家 有一妻多夫的传统 女性有较强的自主权， 大多数此类国家都在南部非洲的东部。
And that is reflected in the epidemic that we have today.	这些都反映在现在大范围流行的疾病上。
You can see these horrifying figures from Africa.	大家看来自非洲的这些数据，让人不寒而栗。
These are all countries in southern Africa where between one in seven, and one in three of all adults, are infected with HIV.	这些全部是南部非洲的国家 七分之一 到三分之一 的成年人 都感染了HIV。
Now, in the rest of the world, we've got basically nothing going on in the general population -- very, very low levels -- but we have extraordinarily high levels of HIV in these other populations who are at highest risk: drug injectors, sex workers and gay men.	而在世界其他国家， 基本上普通大众平安无事， 非常低的比率， 但是HIV携带率 在高危人群中的比率异常的高， 像注射毒品的瘾君子，性工作者， 男同性恋。
And you'll note, that's the local data from Los Angeles: 25 percent prevalence among gay men.	大家注意看旧金山的地方数据。 有25%的同性恋感染了HIV。
Of course, you can't get HIV just by having unprotected sex.	当然，如果只进行无预防措施的性交不会染上HIV。
You can only HIV by having unprotected sex with a positive person.	你只有和在传染期的携带者 发生无预防措施的性交才会染病。
In most of the world, these few prevention failures notwithstanding, we are actually doing quite well these days in commercial sex: condom use rates are between 80 and 100 percent in commercial sex in most countries.	在世界大多数地方， 有些预防措施失效了 但不多， 在性交易行业里 实际上，我们做的很不错。 在大多数国家性性交易行业 安全套的使用率在80%到100%。
And, again, it's because of an alignment of the incentives.	正是因为形成了这些鼓励措施
What's rational for public health is also rational for individual sex workers because it's really bad for business to have another STI.	对公共卫生讲这是理智的行为 对个体性工作者也是理智的。 因为染上病会影响生意。
No one wants it.	没人希望如此。
And, actually, clients don't want to go home with a drip either.	而且，也没有哪个顾客想带病回家。
So essentially, you're able to achieve quite high rates of condom use in commercial sex.	所以最终，你可以在性交易行业 达到高安全套使用率。
But in "intimate" relations it's much more difficult because, with your wife or your boyfriend or someone that you hope might turn into one of those things, we have this illusion of romance and trust and intimacy, and nothing is quite so unromantic as the, "My condom or yours, darling?" question.	但是在"亲密"关系中， 就困难的多了 因为也许你的妻子或男友， 或你想进一步发展成为恋人或配偶的那个人， 因为某种浪漫的幻想 信任和亲密， 没有什么比"亲爱的，用你的安全套还是我的" 这样的问题，更让人扫兴的了。
So in the face of that, you really need quite a strong incentive to use condoms.	所以，在那种情况下， 你需要有强大的意愿 才会使用安全套。
This, for example, this gentleman is called Joseph.	就像这位先生，他叫Joseph。
He's from Haiti and he has AIDS.	来自海地，患有艾滋，
And he's probably not having a lot of sex right now, but he is a reminder in the population, of why you might want to be using condoms.	现在他大概没有什么性交， 但是他提醒着其他的人们， 你为什么想用 安全套。
This is also in Haiti and is a reminder of why you might want to be having sex, perhaps.	这张也在海地，提醒着你 为什么想上床。
Now, funnily enough, this is also Joseph after six months on antiretroviral treatment.	好了，挺好笑，这张还是Joseph。 在进行抗病毒治疗6个月后（的照片）。
Not for nothing do we call it the Lazarus Effect.	这就是为什么我们称之为拉撒路效应。
But it is changing the equation of what's rational in sexual decision-making.	但是这样一来等式两边就不平衡了 在性交时 什么样的决定才是理智的。
So, what we've got -- some people say, "Oh, it doesn't matter very much because, actually, treatment is effective prevention because it lowers your viral load and therefore makes it more difficult to transmit HIV."	我们听到 有些人说："这没什么要紧的 因为实际上，治疗非常有效 治疗使你体内的病毒减少了 所以就很难传递HIV了。"
So, if you look at the viremia thing again, if you do start treatment when you're sick, well, what happens? Your viral load comes down.	那么，如果大家再看看感染病毒的情况， 如果你在生病时就开始治疗， 你体内的病毒携带量就会下降。
But compared to what? What happens if you're not on treatment?	但是这跟怎么比呢？如果你没有接受治疗呢？
Well, you die, so your viral load goes to zero.	那你就会死， 这样你体内的病毒携带量变成了零。
And all of this green stuff here, including the spikes -- which are because you couldn't get to the pharmacy, or you ran out of drugs, or you went on a three day party binge and forgot to take your drugs, or because you've started to get resistance, or whatever -- all of that is virus that wouldn't be out there, except for treatment.	这些绿色部分，包括SPIKES， 是因为你没有去看医生 或者你没有药了，或者你去派对狂欢三天 完全忘记吃药， 或者你的身体开始产生抗药性，或者随便别的什么， 这些全部是病毒 不是因为治疗，这些都不会在这里。
Now, am I saying, "Oh, well, great prevention strategy.	那我的意思是，好啊，多棒的预防策略啊，
Let's just stop treating people."	我们都别给患者治病了吧？
Of course not, of course not.	当然不是，当然不是，
We need to expand antiretroviral treatment as much as we can.	我们必须尽量让更多的人接受抗病毒的治疗。
But what I am doing is calling into question those people who say that more treatment is all the prevention we need.	但是我要提出一个问题 问那些说只要更多的治疗就足够我们预防艾滋的人 你们凭什么这么说。
That's simply not necessarily true, and I think we can learn a lot from the experience of gay men in rich countries where treatment has been widely available for going on 15 years now.	事实显然并非如此， 在发达国家艾滋病的治疗已经普及了15年， 我们可以在那些国家的男同性恋那里 学到很多教训，
And what we've seen is that, actually, condom use rates, which were very, very high -- the gay community responded very rapidly to HIV, with extremely little help from public health nerds, I would say -- that condom use rate has come down dramatically since treatment for two reasons really: One is the assumption of, "Oh well, if he's infected, he's probably on meds, and his viral load's going to be low, so I'm pretty safe."	我们看到 实际上，安全套的使用率 非常，非常高 同性恋群中，对HIV的反应也很迅速， 几乎不需要 公共卫生人员的帮助 接受治疗后，安全套的使用率开始锐减 主要有两个原因。 有一种想法是："呃， 要是他感染了，他肯定在吃药， 那他的病毒携带量就很低，所以我安全的很。"
And the other thing is that people are simply not as scared of HIV as they were of AIDS, and rightly so.	另一个原因是人们根本 不像害怕艾滋一样 害怕HIV，这样想也对。
AIDS was a disfiguring disease that killed you, and HIV is an invisible virus that makes you take a pill every day.	艾滋把你折腾的不像人样，还致你于死命， HIV是看不见摸不着的病毒 害你每天吃片药。
And that's boring, but is it as boring as having to use a condom every time you have sex, no matter how drunk you are, no matter how many poppers you've taken, whatever?	真无聊， 就和每次做爱都要用安全套 一样的无聊， 不管你喝的多醉， 不管你和几个瘾君子上床，什么都不管
If we look at the data, we can see that the answer to that question is, mmm.	看看数据，我们会发现 问题的答案就在 嗯——
So these are data from Scotland.	这些是苏格兰的数据
You see the peak in drug injectors before they started the national needle exchange program.	你看毒品注射者这些峰值 是在苏格兰全国针头交换计划实施之前
Then it came way down.	之后人数下降了
And both in heterosexuals -- mostly in commercial sex -- and in drug users, you've really got nothing much going on after treatment begins, and that's because of that alignment of incentives that I talked about earlier.	不管是异性恋，大多数是性工作者 还是瘾君子， 在开始治疗之后，基本上没有出现任何状况， 这要归功于我先前提到的 那些鼓励政策
But in gay men, you've got quite a dramatic rise starting three or four years after treatment became widely available.	但是男同性恋中， 在治疗广泛推行的 三四年内 数量却急剧上升。
This is of new infections.	这些是新增的感染者。
What does that mean?	这意味着什么？
It means that the combined effect of being less worried and having more virus out there in the population -- more people living longer, healthier lives, more likely to be getting laid with HIV -- is outweighing the effects of lower viral load, and that's a very worrisome thing.	这意味着一方面人们不再那么害怕 而另一方面，病毒携带者的数量增加了， 更多人活的更长，更健康， 更可能身为HIV携带者依然进行性交 这些综合因素的影响 已超过了低病毒携带的影响， 这让我很担心。
What does it mean?	这意味着什么？
It means we need to be doing more prevention the more treatment we have.	这意味着医疗方法越进步，我们越要加强预防力度。
Is that what's happening?	实际情况时这样的吗？
No, and I call it the "compassion conundrum."	不，我把这种情况称作同情难题。
We've talked a lot about compassion the last couple of days, and what's happening really is that people are unable quite to bring themselves to put in good sexual and reproductive health services for sex workers, unable quite to be giving out needles to junkies.	这两天我们常常讨论同情心。 现在的情况是人们 很难做到 为性工作者提供高质量的性和生育健康服务， 很难给瘾君子发针头，
But once they've gone from being transgressive people whose behaviors we don't want to condone to being AIDS victims, we come over all compassionate and buy them incredibly expensive drugs for the rest of their lives.	但是一旦他们不再是不可饶恕的 瘾君子或性工作者， 而成为了艾滋病人， 我们会抛开一切情绪 为他们买昂贵的药物，直到他们生命终结的那天。
It doesn't make any sense from a public health point of view.	从公共卫生的角度讲 这完全没有道理。
I want to give what's very nearly the last word to Ines.	我想对Ines说几句离别的话。
Ines is a a transgender hooker on the streets of Jakarta; she's a chick with a dick.	Ines是为变性人，她在雅加达的街上当妓女。 她是有小鸡鸡的女生。
Why does she do that job?	她为什么当妓女？
Well, of course, because she's forced into it because she doesn't have any better option, etc., etc.	当然是因为她被逼无奈 别无选择，等等等等，
And if we could just teach her to sew and get her a nice job in a factory, all would be well.	但是如果我们教她缝纫 给她在工厂里提供一份好工作，事情就圆满了。
This is what factory workers earn in an hour in Indonesia: on average, 20 cents.	在印尼，工厂工人平均一个小时 赚20美分。
It varies a bit province to province.	每个省份的情况稍微有点不同。
I do speak to sex workers, 15,000 of them for this particular slide, and this is what sex workers say they earn in an hour.	这张幻灯片上的数据 来自我在和15000名性工作者的谈话。 这是性工作者自报的 每小时的薪水。
So it's not a great job, but for a lot of people it really is quite a rational choice.	这个工作不怎么样，但是对很对人而言 确实很明智的选择。
Okay, Ines.	OK，Ines。
We've got the tools, the knowledge and the cash, and commitment to preventing HIV too.	我们也有方法，知识，现金， 以及决心，防治HIV。
Ines: So why is prevalence still rising?	Ines：那为什么HIV的携带者数量还在上升？
It's all politics.	都是因为政治原因。
When you get to politics, nothing makes sense.	当政治介入后，一切都变得毫无道理。
Elizabeth Pisani: "When you get to politics, nothing makes sense."	Elizabeth Pisani："当政治介入后，一切都变得毫无道理。"
So, from the point of view of a sex worker, politicians are making no sense.	从性工作者的角度看， 政客们完全没有道理。
From the point of view of a public health nerd, junkies are doing dumb things.	从公共卫生怪胎的角度看， 瘾君子们在做蠢事。
The truth is that everyone has a different rationale.	每个人都有自己的一套逻辑。
There are as many different ways of being rational as there are human beings on the planet, and that's one of the glories of human existence.	世上有多少个人 就有多少种逻辑。 这是人类的闪光点之一。
But those ways of being rational are not independent of one another, so it's rational for a drug injector to share needles because of a stupid decision that's made by a politician, and it's rational for a politician to make that stupid decision because they're responding to what they think the voters want.	但是种种不同的逻辑 并不是单存于世。 所以瘾君子们 共用针头很理性 因为政治家的一个愚蠢的决定， 政治家做了愚蠢的决定 也很理智 因为他们是以他们认为的 投票者赞同的方式行动。
But here's the thing: we are the voters.	但问题是： 我们才是投票者。
We're not all of them, of course, but TED is a community of opinion leaders.	当然不止我们这些人，但是TED是一个有见解的领军人物的集聚地，
And everyone who's in this room, and everyone who's watching this out there on the web, I think, has a duty to demand of their politicians that we make policy based on scientific evidence and on common sense.	每个在这间房间的人， 每个在网站上看这些视频的人， 都有义务要求政客们 在科学证据和常识的基础上 指定政策。
It's going to be really hard for us to individually affect what's rational for every Frankie and every Ines out there, but you can at least use your vote to stop politicians doing stupid things that spread HIV.	我们很难 单独地去影响 世界上每个Frankie和Ines的决定。 但是你至少能利用手中的投票权 去阻止政客们做蠢事 加剧HIV的传播。
Thank you.	谢谢。
In the last 50 years, we've been building the suburbs with a lot of unintended consequences.	在过去的五十年里 我们一直在建造市郊 并由此带来了没有预料到的结果
And I'm going to talk about some of those consequences and just present a whole bunch of really interesting projects that I think give us tremendous reasons to be really optimistic that the big design and development project of the next 50 years is going to be retrofitting suburbia.	我会来谈一谈这其中的一些 我会列举一些非常有趣的例子 这些例子在我看来能给我们极大的力量 来乐观的期待 在未来五十年里市郊的改建将会成为 主要的设计和发展项目.
So whether it's redeveloping dying malls or re-inhabiting dead big-box stores or reconstructing wetlands out of parking lots, I think the fact is the growing number of empty and under-performing, especially retail, sites throughout suburbia gives us actually a tremendous opportunity to take our least-sustainable landscapes right now and convert them into more sustainable places.	所以无论是重新发展废弃的大型购物中心 或是重建停用了的大集装箱似的商场 或是在旧的停车场的地方 重新建造湿地, 我认为关键是 数目不断增加的 腾空的或是表现不佳的 贯穿市郊的 零售场所 其实现在给了我们巨大的潜力来 接手这些最不太合理利用 的地方 并且把它们改造成 利用更合理的地方.
And in the process, what that allows us to do is to redirect a lot more of our growth back into existing communities that could use a boost, and have the infrastructure in place, instead of continuing to tear down trees and to tear up the green space out at the edges.	这一过程能让我们 把我们更新的认识 重新融入已经存在的社区 使这些社区有较大的提高 并且能在原有的地方重新进行基础建设 而不是继续不断的 砍伐树木， 在边缘地区侵占绿色地带．
So why is this important?	这为什么重要呢？
I think there are any number of reasons, and I'm just going to not get into detail but mention a few.	我想这其中有许多原因． 我来说几个，但不会很深入细节．
Just from the perspective of climate change, the average urban dweller in the U.S.	单单从气候变化的角度来说， 美国城市居民的平均二氧化碳排放量
has about one-third the carbon footprint of the average suburban dweller, mostly because suburbanites drive a lot more, and living in detached buildings, you have that much more exterior surface to leak energy out of.	大约是市郊居民水平的 三分之一， 主要是因为居住在市郊的居民开车更多 而且他们住在相对比较分离的建筑里 你有那么多的外表面 会有能量流失．
So strictly from a climate change perspective, the cities are already relatively green.	所以如果严格的从 气候变化的角度来看， 城市已经 相对＂绿色＂了．
The big opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is actually in urbanizing the suburbs.	有一个减少 温室气体排放的好机会 实际上是把市郊变得更 ＂城市化＂．
All that driving that we've been doing out in the suburbs, we have doubled the amount of miles we drive.	我们在市郊做的事， 实际上要求我们开两倍的路程．
It's increased our dependence on foreign oil despite the gains in fuel efficiency.	这一点就增加了我们对 外国石油的依赖， 尽管能源的利用率是在提高的．
We're just driving so much more; we haven't been able to keep up technologically.	我们多开了这么多路程， 但技术上我们并没有提高这么多．
Public health is another reason to consider retrofitting.	公共卫生是另一个 让我们考虑旧城改造的原因．
Researchers at the CDC and other places have increasingly been linking suburban development patterns with sedentary lifestyles.	CDC和其它机构的研究者们 逐渐更多的把市郊的 发展模式和久坐不动的生活习惯 联系在一起．
And those have been linked then with the rather alarming, growing rates of obesity, shown in these maps here, and that obesity has also been triggering great increases in heart disease and diabetes to the point where a child born today has a one-in-three chance of developing diabetes.	而久坐不动的生活习惯又一直与 相当让人警觉的 肥胖率的增加联系在一起， 这地图里就显示了这一点， 而且肥胖症也是心脏疾病 和糖尿病急剧增加的 一个诱发原因 这个问题已经发展到了，一个现在新出生的婴儿 将会有三分之一的可能 发展成为糖尿病．
And that rate has been escalating at the same rate as children not walking to school anymore, again, because of our development patterns.	这一比率也随着孩子们不再走路 去学校的比率一起 逐步升级． 原因同样也是我们发展模式的问题．
And then there's finally -- there's the affordability question.	而且还有最后一个问题－－关于是否能负担得起的问题
I mean, how affordable is it to continue to live in suburbia with rising gas prices?	我是说，照着汽油的价格 不断上涨的趋势，还有多少人 能负担得起在市郊生活呢？
Suburban expansion to cheap land, for the last 50 years -- you know the cheap land out on the edge -- has helped generations of families enjoy the American dream.	把市郊扩大到便宜的土地去， 在过去的五十年里－－ 便宜的土地也基本耗尽了－－ 帮助了几代人 享受美国梦．
But increasingly, the savings promised by drive-till-you-qualify affordability -- which is basically our model -- those savings are wiped out when you consider the transportation costs.	但越来越多的情况是， 住在市郊，开车开到我们能负担起的好环境居住的想法， 能帮我们省下的钱－－ 这也基本上是我们的范例－－ 这些能省钱的便利也基本都没有了， 如果你考虑到交通的开销的话．
For instance, here in Atlanta, about half of households make between $20,000 and $50,000 a year, and they are spending 29 percent of their income on housing and 32 percent on transportation.	举例来说，在亚特兰大， 大约有一半的有房的人 年收入在二万到五万美金之间． 他们要用去百分之29的收入 在房子上 并要用掉百分之32的收入 在交通上．
I mean, that's 2005 figures.	这是2005年的数字．
That's before we got up to the four bucks a gallon.	这是在汽油价格涨到每加仑4美元之前．
You know, none of us really tend to do the math on our transportation costs, and they're not going down any time soon.	其实，我们中没有人 真的愿意来计算我们在交通上花的钱． 而且这个数字在 近期之内也不会减少．
Whether you love suburbia's leafy privacy or you hate its soulless commercial strips, there are reasons why it's important to retrofit.	不管你是不是喜欢市郊那种有很多树木又很隐私的地方， 又或者你讨厌市郊路边那种没什么灵魂的商业小店 总会有很多理由来说明改建是很重要的．
But is it practical?	但它可行吗？
I think it is.	我认为是的．
June Williamson and I have been researching this topic for over a decade, and we've found over 80 varied projects.	June Williamson 和我一直在研究这个课题 有十年多的时间了． 我们找到了80多个 各式各样的项目．
But that they're really all market driven, and what's driving the market in particular -- number one -- is major demographic shifts.	但这都是根据市场的需求来的． 具体的推动市场的原因有： 第一条是有大的人口变动．
We all tend to think of suburbia as this very family-focused place, but that's really not the case anymore.	我们总是认为市郊是 一个特别以家庭为中心的地方． 但其实已经不是这样的了．
Since 2000, already two-thirds of households in suburbia did not have kids in them.	从2000年开始， 有三分之二的市郊家庭 已经不再有孩子了．
We just haven't caught up with the actual realities of this.	我们只是还没跟上现实的脚步．
The reasons for this have a lot to with the dominance of the two big demographic groups right now: the Baby Boomers retiring -- and then there's a gap, Generation X, which is a small generation.	这其中的原因有很大程度和 现在两大的人口群体占主要 势力有关． 二战后生育高峰期出生的人已经退休， 这之后是一个间断， 二十世纪六七十年代出生的人，是人较少的一代．
They're still having kids -- but Generation Y hasn't even started hitting child-rearing age.	他们还要孩子． 但之后出生的拥有互联网的这一代人 还没有到养育孩子的年龄．
They're the other big generation.	他们是另一个人较多的一代．
So as a result of that, demographers predict that through 2025, 75 to 85 percent of new households will not have kids in them.	所以结果是， 人口统计学家们预计 直到2025年， 百分之75到85的新的家庭 将不再有孩子．
And the market research, consumer research, asking the Boomers and Gen Y what it is they would like, what they would like to live in, tells us there is going to be a huge demand -- and we're already seeing it -- for more urban lifestyles within suburbia.	并且市场调研和消费者调研 调查生育高峰期的出生的人和拥有互联网的一代人， 他们想要什么， 他们想住在什么样的地方， 告诉我们将有对更多的城市生活方式的很大需求 其实我们已经能在市郊里 观察到 这一点．
That basically, the Boomers want to be able to age in place, and Gen Y would like to live an urban lifestyle, but most of their jobs will continue to be out in suburbia.	生育高峰期出生的一代想在合适的地方安度晚年， 拥有互联网的一代又想过 城市的生活方式， 但他们的工作依旧大多数在外面的市郊．
The other big dynamic of change is the sheer performance of underperforming asphalt.	另一个巨大的变动是 那些不被充分利用的 沥青的表现。
Now I keep thinking this would be a great name for an indie rock band, but developers generally use it to refer to underused parking lots -- and suburbia is full of them.	我一直想，对一个独立的摇滚乐队 这会是一个很棒的名字． 但开发商一直用它来 指未充分利用的停车场． 市郊到处是这样的停车场．
When the postwar suburbs were first built out on the cheap land away from downtown, it made sense to just build surface parking lots.	当战后，人们第一次在 远离市中心的便宜的土地上 建市郊的时候， 只修建路面的停车场 是很乎道理的．
But those sites have now been leapfrogged and leapfrogged again, as we've just continued to sprawl, and they now have a relatively central location.	但这些地方已经成了孩子们 玩跳蛙游戏的地方， 而我们只知道再接着像更远的地方延伸． 现在这些地方 已相对是中心的地带了．
It no longer just makes sense.	只修路面停车场已经不再合适了．
That land is more valuable than just surface parking lots.	这些土地远不止路面停车场这样的价值．
It now makes sense to go back in, build a deck and build up on those sites.	现在，合适的做法是回到从前的做法， 在这些地方向上建， 建几层的停车场．
So what do you do with a dead mall, dead office park?	所以我们该拿 荒废的商场， 荒废的园区公园怎么办呢？
It turns out, all sorts of things.	其实可以用来做很多事．
In a slow economy like ours, re-inhabitation is one of the more popular strategies.	在一个较慢发展的经济条件下，就像我们这样 把不再利用的房子重新利用起来 是一种很普遍的策略．
So this happens to be a dead mall in St. Louis that's been re-inhabited as art-space.	这是一个在圣路易斯 不被利用的商场 被重新改建成了艺术空间．
It's now home to artist studios, theater groups, dance troupes.	它现在既是艺术工作室， 也是剧团和舞蹈表演队的排练场所．
It's not pulling in as much tax revenue as it once was, but it's serving its community.	它现在虽然不能吸收像以前一样多的 税收收入． 但它还在为它所在的社区服务．
It's keeping the lights on.	它始终都亮着．
It's becoming, I think, a really great institution.	在我看来，它现在成为一个很好的机构．
Other malls have been re-inhabited as nursing homes, as universities, and as all variety of office space.	其它被重新利用的商场， 有的改成了养老院 有的改成了大学， 还有各种办公场所．
We also found a lot of examples of dead big-box stores that have been converted into all sorts of community-serving uses as well -- lots of schools, lots of churches and lots of libraries like this one.	我们还找到了许多 把废弃的"集装箱式"的商场 改建成为 各式各样的服务社区的机构， 比如许多的学校，教堂， 还有像这样的图书馆．
This was a little grocery store, a Food Lion grocery store, that is now a public library.	这原来是一个很小的杂货店，名叫＂Food Lion＂ 现在成了一个公共图书馆．
In addition to, I think, doing a beautiful adaptive reuse, they tore up some of the parking spaces, put in bioswales to collect and clean the runoff, put in a lot more sidewalks to connect to the neighborhoods.	除此之外，我认为，还做了一个很漂亮的适应性的重新利用， 挖开原来的停车空间， 改建成生物湿地，以此来收集并清理雨水， 建了更多的人行道 来连接到附近的地区．
And they've made this, what was just a store along a commercial strip, into a community gathering space.	有人已经把 街边的一家商店 改建成了社区集会的场所．
This one is a little L-shaped strip shopping center in Phoenix, Arizona.	这是一个小的L形状的购物中心 在凤凰城，亚利桑那州．
Really all they did was they gave it a fresh coat of bright paint, a gourmet grocery, and they put up a restaurant in the old post office.	他们只是把这重新粉刷过，看上去更新一点， 弄成一个美食杂货店， 他们又把旧的邮局改造成了饭店．
Never underestimate the power of food to turn a place around and make it a destination.	千万别小看了美食的力量， 它能把一个地方彻底改变 变成大家都想去的地方．
It's been so successful, they've now taken over the strip across the street.	这项工程做得如此成功，他们现在正在改造街对面的那些商店．
The real estate ads in the neighborhood all very proudly proclaim, "Walking distance to Le Grande Orange," because it provided its neighborhood with what sociologists like to call "a third place."	贴在附近的房地产广告里 很骄傲的说， ＂走路就能到勒格兰德＂ 因为它给附近的地区 提供了社会学家们称之为的 ＂第三个地方．＂
If home is the first place and work is the second place, the third place is where you go to hang out and build community.	如果家是第一个地方， 工作单位是第二个地方 第三个地方就是你出去休闲 和社区的人打交道的地方．
And especially as suburbia is becoming less centered on the family, the family households, there's a real hunger for more third places.	尤其是当市郊已经不再 那么重视家庭的时候， 对于有家的人们， 确实是有一种需求 想要有一个＂第三个地方．＂
So the most dramatic retrofits are really those in the next category, the next strategy: redevelopment.	最戏剧性的重建 是在下一类里要谈到的， 是另一个策略，重新发展．
Now, during the boom, there were several really dramatic redevelopment projects where the original building was scraped to the ground and then the whole site was rebuilt at significantly greater density, a sort of compact, walkable urban neighborhoods.	在繁荣时期，就有过几个 很戏剧化的重新发展的项目 那些原来的建筑 被推倒了．整个地区内相当多的地方 都进行了重新建造， 建造成了一种紧凑的，能走路从一个地方到另一个地方的市区环境．
But some of them have been much more incremental.	这些地区有些在这一过程中升值了．
This is Mashpee Commons, the oldest retrofit that we've found.	这是Mashpee公共用地， 我们找到的最老的翻新例子．
And it's just incrementally, over the last 20 years, built urbanism on top of its parking lots.	在过去的二十年里，这逐渐地在 停车场上 建起了城市的格局．
So the black and white photo shows the simple 60's strip shopping center.	黑白照片显示的是 60年代简单的购物中心．
And then the maps above that show its gradual transformation into a compact, mixed-use New England village, and it has plans now that have been approved for it to connect to new residential neighborhoods across the arterials and over to the other side.	上面那张图 显示了它逐渐改变 成一个紧凑的结构， 和新英格兰村庄想接 并在新的计划里， 它被批准和 新的住宅区域联在一起 跨过干线 在另一边接着发展．
So, you know, sometimes it's incremental.	所以有时候，它是逐渐改变的．
Sometimes, it's all at once.	有时候是一次性完成的．
This is another infill project on the parking lots, this one of an office park outside of Washington D.C.	这是另一个在停车场基础上进行填补的项目， 这是一个华盛顿特区外的办公停车场．
When Metrorail expanded transit into the suburbs and opened a station nearby to this site, the owners decided to build a new parking deck and then insert on top of their surface lots a new Main Street, several apartments and condo buildings, while keeping the existing office buildings.	当华盛顿地区的地铁通到市郊 并在这个停车场附近设了一个站台后， 停车场的所有者决定在这 再建一个新的停车场 并在原来的地面停车场的地方 新建一个大街，几栋住宅 和公寓楼， 并同时保留了原来的办公大楼．
Here is the site in 1940: It was just a little farm in the village of Hyattsville.	这是这里1940年时的样子． 那时这里只是一个小的农场 在一个叫作Hyattsville的村庄里．
By 1980, it had been subdivided into a big mall on one side and the office park on the other and then some buffer sites for a library and a church to the far right.	到1980年，这里已经被分割成了 一边的大的购物商场 和另一边办公园区的花园． 之后又在缓冲区建了图书馆 并在最右边建了一座教堂．
Today, the transit, the Main Street and the new housing have all been built.	现在，公共交通， 主要街道和新的建筑 都已经建好．
Eventually, I expect that the streets will probably extend through a redevelopment of the mall.	逐渐地，我想那些街区 很可能会延伸到重新开发的商场去．
Plans have already been announced for a lot of those garden apartments above the mall to be redeveloped.	关于重新发展在商场上面的 那些大量花园式公寓 的计划已经公布了．
Transit is a big driver of retrofits.	公共交通系统是改建的一个主要推动力．
So here's what it looks like.	这是它看起来的样子．
You can sort of see the funky new condo buildings in between the office buildings and the public space and the new Main Street.	你能隐约看见那些时髦的新式公寓 建在办公大楼的中间 还有公共空间和新的主要街道．
This one is one of my favorites, Belmar.	这是我最喜欢的一个项目，在Belmar．
I think they really built an attractive place here and have just employed all-green construction.	我认为他们真的建了一个很吸引人的地方 并且全部用了绿色建筑．
There's massive P.V. arrays on the roofs as well as wind turbines.	楼顶上有大量的光电转换阵列 还有风力发电的涡轮．
This was a very large mall on a hundred-acre superblock.	这里原来是一个很大的商场 建在一个一百英亩的大街区里．
It's now 22 walkable urban blocks with public streets, two public parks, eight bus lines and a range of housing types, and so it's really given Lakewood, Colorado the downtown that this particular suburb never had.	现在这里有 22个适宜步行的城市街区 和公共街道， 两个公共公园，八条公交线路 以及许多种不同的住宅样式． 所以它真的给了科罗拉多州的Lakewood 一个市中心 一个这个特殊的市郊从来没有的东西．
Here was the mall in its heyday.	这是这个商场在它最繁华的时期．
They had their prom in the mall. They loved their mall.	人们在这商场里开舞会，他们都很喜欢这里．
So here's the site in 1975 with the mall.	这是1975年的样子 商场在里面．
By 1995, the mall has died.	到1995年，商场荒废了．
The department store has been kept -- and we found this was true in many cases.	建筑还留在那． 我们发现这是个很普遍的现象．
The department stores are multistory; they're better built.	百货商场是个多层建筑，他们都建得很好．
They're easy to be re-adapted.	他们也很容易就能被重新利用．
But the one story stuff ...	但如果是一家店挨着一家店的格局...
that's really history.	就真得变成历史了．
So here it is at projected build-out.	所以，这里是计划中的样子．
This project, I think, has great connectivity to the existing neighborhoods.	这个项目，我认为和 周边的地区有很大联系．
It's providing 1,500 households with the option of a more urban lifestyle.	它给1500户家庭提供了一种 更城市化的生活方式．
It's about two-thirds built out right now.	三分之二的工程已经完成了．
Here's what the new Main Street looks like.	这是新的主要街道的样子．
It's very successful, and it's helped to prompt -- eight of the 13 regional malls in Denver have now, or have announced plans to be, retrofitted.	它很成功． 它也推动了 丹佛十三家里的八家 地区性的商场 进行或者计划进行 重新改造．
But it's important to note that all of this retrofitting is not occurring -- just bulldozers are coming and just plowing down the whole city.	但重要的是注意到所有这些重新改造 并不是 只让推土机来，把整个城市推倒．
No, it's pockets of walkability on the sites of under-performing properties.	其实不是这样的，这里是把小块的适宜步行的街区 建在那些 已经不再发挥功能的建筑上．
And so it's giving people more choices, but it's not taking away choices.	所以，它给了人们更多的选择． 但并不带走选择．
But it's also not really enough to just create pockets of walkability.	同时，只在建小规模的 步行街区也是不够的．
You want to also try to get more systemic transformation.	还需要一些更系统化的运输工具．
We need to also retrofit the corridors themselves.	我们也需要重新改建走廊本身．
So this is one that has been retrofitted in California.	这是一个加州一个地方 重新改建的例子．
They took the commercial strip shown on the black-and-white images below, and they built a boulevard that has become the Main Street for their town.	他们把商业小店 下面图里白色和黑色的地方， 然后把它改建成了一条大路 这条路变成了这个城里的主要街道．
And it's transformed from being an ugly, unsafe, undesirable address, to becoming a beautiful, attractive, dignified sort of good address.	而且把这一地区从一个 丑陋，不安全 不受欢迎的地方， 变成了一个漂亮， 吸引人，高贵的，好的地方．
I mean now we're hoping we start to see it; they've already built City Hall, attracted two hotels.	我希望现在我们能看到了． 他们已经建了市政大厅，并且吸引了两家酒店．
I could imagine beautiful housing going up along there without tearing down another tree.	我能想像漂亮的建筑沿着那建起来 并且不会砍伐一颗树木．
So there's a lot of great things, but I'd love to see more corridors getting retrofitting.	还有许多其它很好的东西． 但我更希望看到更多的走廊被改建．
But densification is not going to work everywhere.	把地区变得更致密拥挤 并不适用于每一个地方．
Sometimes re-greening is really the better answer.	有时候重建绿色 也是真的更好的办法．
There's a lot to learn from successful landbanking programs in cities like Flint, Michigan.	我们能学很多东西从成功的 土地储备项目里， 比如密歇根州Flint那里的项目．
There's also a burgeoning suburban farming movement -- sort of victory gardens meets the Internet.	还有生机勃勃的市郊改为农场的运动 类似于胜利的花园遇见了互联网．
But perhaps one of the most important re-greening aspects is the opportunity to restore the local ecology, as in this example outside of Minneapolis.	但可能关于重建绿色的最重要的一个方面是 能有机会修复 当地的生态． 就像密西西比外围的例子里一样．
When the shopping center died, the city restored the site's original wetlands, creating lakefront property, which then attracted private investment, the first private investment to this very low-income neighborhood in over 40 years.	当商场停用以后, 这个城市把这里重新 恢复了以前的湿地, 并发展了湖边的房地产, 吸引了私人投资, 这是这个收入特别低的区域里 四十年里的头一桩投资.
So they've managed to both restore the local ecology and the local economy at the same time.	所以他们不仅恢复了原来的生态环境, 并在同时促进了地区经济的发展.
This is another re-greening example.	这是另一个重回绿色的例子.
It also makes sense in very strong markets.	在强大的市场中,这样的方法也能适用.
This one in Seattle is on the site of a mall parking lot adjacent to a new transit stop.	这是在西雅图, 本来这里是一个商场的停车场, 挨着一个新的运输中转站.
And the wavy line is a path alongside a creek that has now been daylit.	这条波浪线 是一条小河边的路,现在这条小河是暴露在阳光下的.
The creek had been culverted under the parking lot.	这条小河以前曾被改成停车场下的水渠.
But daylighting our creeks really improves their water quality and contributions to habitat.	但把小河暴露出来 真的能改进河水的质量 并且对附近动物的栖息地有好处.
So I've shown you some of the first generation of retrofits.	所以,我向你们展示了一些 第一代的改造工程.
What's next?	以后的会是什么样呢?
I think we have three challenges for the future.	我想对于以后的改造我们要面对三个挑战
The first is to plan retrofitting much more systemically at the metropolitan scale.	第一个是从整个城市的角度 更系统的 规划改造过程.
We need to be able to target which areas really should be re-greened.	我们要能够指出来 哪个地区应该重建绿色.
Where should we be redeveloping?	哪个区域应该重新发展?
And where should we be encouraging re-inhabitation?	还有在哪个地方我们应该鼓励人们重新去居住?
These slides just show two images from a larger project that looked at trying to do that for Atlanta.	这里有一个大工程的 两幅图 他们要试图在亚特兰大实施的工程.
I led a team that was asked to imagine Atlanta 100 years from now.	别人问我们的团队 亚特兰大一百年后会是什么样子.
And we chose to try to reverse sprawl through three simple moves -- expensive, but simple.	我们选择试图不再用向外扩张的方法 有三个简单的改变----造价很高,但很简单.
One, in a hundred years, transit on all major rail and road corridors.	第一条, 在一百年后, 公共交通要能到所有主要的 铁路和道路干道.
Two, in a hundred years, thousand foot buffers on all stream corridors.	第二条,一百年后, 要有一千尺的缓冲带 在所有河流旁边.
It's a little extreme, but we've got a little water problem.	这是略显得有点多,但水这一方面有些小问题.
In a hundred years, subdivisions that simply end up too close to water or too far from transit won't be viable.	在一百年后, 离得水太近的小区域 或者是离得公共交通太远的小区域都不能发展下去.
And so we've created the eco-acre transfer-to-transfer development rights to the transit corridors and allow the re-greening of those former subdivisions for food and energy production.	所以我们发明了生态生产运输方式 来把开发区的人 运送到公共交通的干道上 并且同时允许对那些原有的 进行食品和能源生产的小区域 进行重建绿色的改造.
So the second challenge is to improve the architectural design quality of the retrofits.	第二个挑战是 提高重新改造过程中 那些建筑设计的质量.
And I close with this image of democracy in action: This is a protest that's happening on a retrofit in Silver Spring, Maryland on an Astroturf town green.	我来用这幅"民主进行时"的图 作为结束. 这是发生在Silver Spring, 马里兰州的 一个游行.内容是关于Astroturf这个镇的 绿色问题.
Now, retrofits are often accused of being examples of faux downtowns and instant urbanism, and not without reason; you don't get much more phony than an Astroturf town green.	现在,重新改造经常被指责为 就是人造的市中心 和瞬间发展的城市地区. 这也不是没有原因,比起Astroturf 镇的绿色, 是没有几个例子能比它更适合被称作"冒牌货"了.
I have to say, these are very hybrid places.	我得说, 这些都是非常混杂的例子.
They are new but trying to look old.	他们都是新的,但试图显得旧些.
They have urban streetscapes, but suburban parking ratios.	他们有城市的景色, 但却有着市郊地区的停车率.
Their populations are more diverse than typical suburbia, but they're less diverse than cities.	这里的人口组成 比一般的市郊地区更多元化, 但还没有到城市的程度.
And they are public places, but that are managed by private companies.	而且他们是 公共地区, 却由私人企业进行管理.
And just the surface appearance are often -- like the Astroturf here -- they make me wince.	就像表面上看到的一样 就像Astroturf这里 他们让我很为难.
So, you know, I mean I'm glad that the urbanism is doing its job.	所以,我很高兴 城市化有所作为.
The fact that a protest is happening really does mean that the layout of the blocks, the streets and blocks, the putting in of public space, compromised as it may be, is still a really great thing.	这样的游行发生的事实 其实说明 这种街区,街道和公共空间里的各种设施的格局 虽然有一些妥协, 但仍是一个好的事物.
But we've got to get the architecture better.	但我们得尽力把建筑建得更好.
The final challenge is for all of you.	最后一个挑战是对我们所有人的.
I want you to join the protest and start demanding more sustainable suburban places -- more sustainable places, period.	我想让你们加入到游行的队伍里 并且开始要求一个 更合理规划的市郊环境 更合理的地方.
But culturally, we tend to think that downtowns should be dynamic, and we expect that.	但从文化角度看,, 我们习惯于认为市中心 应该是充满活力的,并且我们期待它这样.
But we seem to have an expectation that the suburbs should forever remain frozen in whatever adolescent form they were first given birth to.	但我们似乎有一种期待, 市郊地区应该永远保持"冷冻" 保持它从"诞生"起就有的 那种青涩的状态.
It's time to let them grow up, so I want you to all support the zoning changes, the road diets, the infrastructure improvements and the retrofits that are coming soon to a neighborhood near you.	现在是时候让他们长大了. 所以我希望你们 都能来支持地区的改变, 支持把道路变窄, 改进基础设施 还有那些很快将要到你周边的改造工程.
Thank you.	谢谢.
I want you to take a trip with me.	我要你们和我一起去体验一段旅程.
Picture yourself driving down a small road in Africa, and as you drive along, you look off to the side, and this is what you see: you see a field of graves.	想象你们开着车 行驶在非洲的一条小路上, 行驶途中, 当你透过车窗,望向路旁, 这是你所看到的景象: 你看到一片坟墓.
And you stop, and you get out of your car and you take a picture.	你停下来,走下车,将这一幕拍下.
And you go into the town, and you inquire, "What's going on here?"	然后你到了镇里, 问人们, "照片上这个地方发生了什么事情?"
and people are initially reluctant to tell you.	大家一开始不愿意告诉你.
And then someone says, "These are the recent AIDS deaths in our community."	然后有人说, "这些是最近在我们这里因为艾滋病而死的人."
HIV isn't like other medical conditions; it's stigmatizing.	艾滋病不像别的病; 它让人觉得羞耻自卑.
People are reluctant to talk about it -- there's a fear associated with it.	人们不愿意谈及它. 它让人感到恐惧.
And I'm going to talk about HIV today, about the deaths, about the stigma.	而我今天将会谈及艾滋病, 谈及由它引起的死亡, 以及人们关于对艾滋病的这种羞耻心理.
It's a medical story, but more than that, it's a social story.	这不仅是一个医学上的问题, 也是一个社会问题.
This map depicts the global distribution of HIV.	这幅地图描绘了全球艾滋病的分布情况.
And as you can see, Africa has a disproportionate share of the infection.	同时, 你们可以看见, 非洲受感染比例大大超出平均水平.
There are 33 million people living with HIV in the world today.	今天全球有3300万 艾滋病带菌者.
Of these, two-thirds, 22 million are living in sub-Saharan Africa.	其中,三分之二, 也即2200万, 生活在撒哈拉以南非洲.
There are 1.4 million pregnant women in low- and middle-income countries living with HIV and of these, 90 percent are in sub-Saharan Africa.	有140万怀孕的女性 带着艾滋病病毒生活在中低收入国家, 而其中的90% 就在撒哈拉以南的非洲.
We talk about things in relative terms.	让我们通过对比来说明问题.
And I'm going to talk about annual pregnancies and HIV-positive mothers.	以每年怀孕 的带有艾滋病病毒的母亲为例.
The United States -- a large country -- each year, 7,000 mothers with HIV who give birth to a child.	在美国 -- 一个大国 -- 每年有七千带有艾滋病病毒的母亲 生下孩子.
But you go to Rwanda -- a very small country -- 8,000 mothers with HIV who are pregnant.	但在卢旺达 -- 一个很小的国家 -- 每年就有8千个带有艾滋病病毒的母亲怀孕.
And then you go to Baragwanath Hospital, outside of Johannesburg in South Africa, and 8,000 HIV-positive pregnant women giving birth -- a hospital the same as a country.	Baragwanath医院, 位于南非约翰内斯堡的远郊, 那儿每年有八千个携有艾滋病病毒的母亲 临产 -- 一个医院就抵过一个国家.
And to realize that this is just the tip of an iceberg that when you compare everything here to South Africa, it just pales, because in South Africa, each year 300,000 mothers with HIV give birth to children.	想一想这只是冰山一角, 因此, 当你拿这里所发生的一切 与南非相比, 都显得不值一提, 因为,在南非, 每年就有30万携带艾滋病病毒的母亲 临产.
So we talk about PMTCT, and we refer to PMTCT, prevention of mother to child transmission.	当我们谈到PMTCT, 我们所说的PMTCT, 即防止母子垂直传染.
I think there's an assumption amongst most people in the public that if a mother is HIV-positive, she's going to infect her child.	我想大部分公众会认为 如果一个母亲是艾滋病带菌者, 那么, 她就会把这个病毒传染给她的孩子.
The reality is really, very different.	这与事实却相去甚远.
In resource-rich countries, with all the tests and treatment we currently have, less than two percent of babies are born HIV-positive -- 98 percent of babies are born HIV-negative.	在资源富足的国家, 在我们现有的检测和治疗条件下, 仅有不到2%的婴儿生下来后艾滋病病毒检测是呈阳性. 98%的婴儿在生下来的时候艾滋病病毒检测是阴性.
And yet, the reality in resource-poor countries, in the absence of tests and treatment, 40 percent -- 40 percent of children are infected -- 40 percent versus two percent -- an enormous difference.	但是, 现实是在资源稀缺的国家, 在缺乏检测和治疗条件下, 40%, 40% 的孩子生下来就被感染了艾滋病病毒 -- 40% 比 2% -- 是相当大的差距.
So these programs -- and I'm going to refer to PMTCT though my talk -- these prevention programs, simply, they're the tests and the drugs that we give to mothers to prevent them from infecting their babies, and also the medicines we give to mothers to keep them healthy and alive to raise their children.	而这些项目-- 我将在我的讲话里称之为PMTCT -- 这些预防项目, 简单的说, 是指为母亲们提供检测和药物 来防止她们将病毒传染给她们的孩子, 同时, 我们也为母亲们提供药品 以便她们能够健康地活着并带大她们的孩子.
So it's the test a mother gets when she comes in.	所以, 母亲们来到这里时会接受这样一个检测,
It's the drugs she receives to protect the baby that's inside the uterus and during delivery.	这是给她的药品 用来保护婴儿在子宫里和生产过程中不受感染
It's the guidance she gets around infant feeding and safer sex.	这是她所接受的关于哺乳 和性生活的辅导
It's an entire package of services, and it works.	这是这一整套的服务, 而它是行而有效的.
So in the United States, since the advent of treatment in the middle of the 1990s, there's been an 80-percent decline in the number of HIV-infected children.	所以在美国, 自从上个世纪90年代中在艾滋病治疗上取得进步以后, 就实现了80%的减幅, 在艾滋病带菌儿童的数目上.
Less than 100 babies are born with HIV each year in the United States and yet, still, over 400,000 children are born every year in the world today with HIV.	仅有不到100个婴儿是生下来就带着艾滋病病毒的, 每年, 在美国. 但是, 目前 每年全球仍然有超过40万儿童 生下来就是艾滋病带菌者.
What does that mean?	这意味着什么呢?
It means 1,100 children infected each day -- 1,100 children each day, infected with HIV.	这意味着每天有1,100个儿童受感染 -- 每天1,100个儿童感染艾滋病病毒.
And where do they come from?	他们来自哪里呢?
Well, less than one comes from the United States.	这个, 来自美国的少于一个.
One, on average, comes from Europe.	平均来自欧洲的有一个.
100 come from Asia and the Pacific.	100个来自亚太地区.
And each day, a thousand babies -- a thousand babies are born each day with HIV in Africa.	而每天, 就有一千个携带艾滋病病毒的婴儿, 一千个, 在非洲出生.
So again, I look at the globe here and the disproportionate share of HIV in Africa.	因此, 当我再看看这张全球分布图 能看到, 非洲在艾滋病带菌者分布上的高比例.
And let's look at another map.	让我们来看另外一幅地图.
And here, again, we see Africa has a disproportionate share of the numbers of doctors.	在这里我们再次看到 非洲的医生数量远远低于平均水平.
That thin sliver you see here, that's Africa.	那薄薄的银色部分, 就是非洲了.
And it's the same with nurses.	护士的数量也一样.
The truth is sub-Saharan Africa has 24 percent of the global disease burden and yet only three percent of the world's health care workers.	事实是, 在撒哈拉以南非洲 占了全球24% 的疾病分布 但是,却仅有3%的医护人员在这里工作.
That means doctors and nurses simply don't have the time to take care of patients.	这意味着医生和护士 根本就没有时间去照顾病人.
A nurse in a busy clinic will see 50 to 100 patients in a day, which leaves her just minutes per patient -- minutes per patient.	在一个繁忙的诊所里, 一个护士 每天要看50 到100 个病人, 在每个病人身上她只能花几分钟 -- 几分钟.
And so when we look at these PMTCT programs, what does it mean?	所以, 当我们重新谈及PMTCT项目的时候, 这意味着什么呢？
Well, back in 2001, when there was just a simple test and a single dose of a drug, a nurse, in the course of her few minutes with a patient, would have to counsel for the HIV test, perform the HIV test, explain the results, dispense a single dose of the drug, Nevirapine, explain how to take it, discuss infant feeding options, reinforce infant feeding, and test the baby -- in minutes.	在2001年的时候, 那个时候只有一个简单的测试 和一剂药 每个护士, 在跟一个病人相处的短短的几分钟里, 她要对这个病人做艾滋病病毒检测, 解释检测结果, 配一剂药- Nevirapine, 向病人说明如何用药, 跟她讨论如何更好地哺育婴儿,, 还要在这几分钟里对婴儿进行检测.
Well, fortunately since 2001, we've got new treatments, new tests, and we're far more successful, but we don't have any more nurses.	幸好, 从2001年以后, 我们有了新的治疗方法, 新的检测手段, 我们的工作取得了很大的进步, 但我们没有更多的护士.
And so these are the tests a nurse now has to do in those same few minutes.	而这些测试是 一个护士必须完成的 在同样的短短几分钟里.
It's not possible -- it doesn't work.	这样不行. 这是没有效果的.
And so we need to find better ways of providing care.	我们必须想出 更好的方法来护理这些病人.
This is a picture of a maternal health clinic in Africa -- mothers coming, pregnant and with their babies.	这个图显示了非洲的产妇健康诊所-- 母亲们怀着她们的婴儿来到这些诊所.
These women are here for care, but we know that just doing a test, just giving someone a drug, it's not enough.	这些女人是来接受医疗护理的, 但是我们知道, 只做一个检测, 只给她们一份药, 是不够的.
Meds don't equal medical care.	药品并不等于医疗护理.
Doctors and nurses, frankly, don't have the time or skills to tell people what to do in ways they understand.	坦白说, 医生和护士, 没有足够的时间和技巧 用人们能够明白的途径来告诉他们该怎么做.
I'm a doctor -- I tell people things to do, and I expect them to follow my guidance -- because I'm a doctor; I went to Harvard -- but the reality is, if I tell a patient, "You should have safer sex.	我是一个医生. 我告诉人们该做的事, 而我也期待他们根据我的指引去做 -- 因为我是一个医生, 我在哈佛读过书 -- 但实际上, 如果我跟一个病人说, "你应该有更安全的性生活.
You should always use a condom," and yet, in her relationship, she's not empowered -- what's going to happen?	你应该一直使用避孕套," 这不起作用, 因为在她和异性的关系里, 她并没有这种权力 -- 那接下来会发生什么呢?
If I tell her to take her medicines every day and yet, no one in the household knows about her illness, so it's just not going to work.	如果我让她每天吃药, 但是, 她的家里没有人知道她的病, 那 这根本就不会起作用.
And so we need to do more, we need to do it differently, we need to do it in ways that are affordable and accessible and can be taken to scale, which means it can be done everywhere.	所以我们必须做更多, 我们必须采用不同的途径, 我们必须通过更实际的 更可行的的和更容易被推广的方式来做这些事情, 这意味着它在什么地方都能使用.
So, I want to tell you a story -- I want to take you on a little trip.	所以,我要告诉你们一个故事. 我要带你们经历一段短暂的旅程
Imagine yourself, if you can, you're a young woman in Africa, you're going to the hospital or clinic.	如果可以的话,你想象一下, 你是一个年轻的非洲女性, 你要去一个医院或诊所.
You go in for a test and you find out that you're pregnant, and you're delighted.	你去做一个检测, 然后, 你发现你怀孕了, 你很兴奋.
And then they give you another test and they tell you you're HIV-positive, and you're devastated.	但他们又让你做了另外一个测试, 然后告诉你, 你对艾滋病病毒呈阳性反应, 你绝望了.
And the nurse takes you into a room, and she tells you about the tests and HIV and the medicines you can take and how to take care of yourself and your baby, and you hear none of it.	护士把你带到一个房间里, 她跟你解释这些检测的项目, 解释什么是艾滋病,并告诉你该吃什么药, 怎么来照顾你自己和你的孩子, 但是你什么都听不进去.
All you're hearing is, "I'm going to die, and my baby is going to die."	你能听见的是, "我要死了, 我的宝宝也要死了."
And then you're out on the street, and you don't know where to go.	然后你走到街上, 你不知道要去什么地方,
And you don't know who you can talk to, because the truth is, HIV is so stigmatizing that if you partner, your family, anyone in your home, you're likely to be thrown out without any means of support.	你也不知道能跟谁倾诉, 因为现实是,艾滋病是那么让人忌违 你的另一半,你的家人,家里任何一个人, 如果知道这件事的话, 你就很有可能会被赶出去 无依无靠.
And this -- this is the face and story of HIV in Africa today.	而这个, 这个就是 今天艾滋病病人在非洲的处境, 以及她们的故事.
But we're here to talk about possible solutions and some good news.	但我们接下来还要谈可能的解决方案 以及一些好消息.
And I want to change the story a little bit.	而我要把这个故事稍稍改动一下.
Take the same mother, and the nurse, after she gives her her test, takes her to a room.	还是那个母亲, 还是那个护士。护士在给那个母亲做完检测以后, 把她带到一个房间.
The door opens and there's a room full of mothers, mothers with babies, and they're sitting, and they're talking, they're listening.	房间的门打开, 房间里都是母亲,带着婴儿的母亲, 她们坐在那里,谈话和聆听.
They're drinking tea, they're having sandwiches.	她们在喝茶,她们在吃三文治.
And she goes inside, and woman comes up to her and says, "Welcome to mothers2mothers.	她走进去, 女人们都过来跟她说, "欢迎来到 mothers2mothers.
Have a seat. You're safe here.	请坐下来. 你在这里很安全.
We're all HIV-positive.	我们都是艾滋病带菌者.
You're going to be okay. You're going to live.	你不会有事的, 你会生存下去.
Your baby is going to be HIV-negative."	你的宝宝不会成为艾滋病带菌者."
We view mothers as a community's single greatest resource.	在我们的眼中,母亲们 是这里最宝贵的资源.
Mothers take care of the children, take care of the home.	她们照顾孩子,照顾家.
So often the men are gone.	经常,男人们出去了.
They're working, or they're not part of the household.	他们在外面工作, 或者并不跟孩子的母亲住在一起.
Our organization, mothers2mothers, enlists women with HIV as care providers.	我们的组织, mothers2mothers, 招募带有艾滋病病毒的女性 来这里护理其他人。
We bring mothers who have HIV, who've been through these PMTCT programs in the very facilities, to come back and work side by side with doctors and nurses as part of the health care team.	我们让那些带有艾滋病病毒的母亲, 她们已经通过PMTCT项目 特定疗程的治疗, 让她们回来和医生护士并肩工作 成为医疗护理队伍的一分子.
These mothers, we call them mentor mothers, are able to engage women who, just like themselves, pregnant with babies, have found out about being HIV-positive, who need support and education.	这些母亲们,我们称她们为母亲指导员, 她们能够帮助那些 就像她们自己一样, 怀着孩子, 但又被发现是艾滋病带菌者, 需要支持和相关知识辅导的母亲.
And they support them around the diagnosis and educate them about how to take their medicines, how to take care of themselves, how to take care of their babies.	在诊疗的过程中, 她们提供的支持还包括： 教她们怎样用药, 如何照顾她们自己, 如何照顾她们的孩子.
Consider: if you needed surgery, you would want the best possible technical surgeon, right?	试想一下: 如果你需要手术, 你会要技术最好的外科医生来帮你做手术, 对吧.
But if you wanted to understand what that surgery would do to your life, you'd like to engage someone, someone who's had the procedure.	但是如果你想搞清楚 这个手术会对你的生活带来怎样的影响, 你该会希望能够与那些 做过这个手术的人沟通。
Patients are experts on their own experience, and they can share that experience with others.	久病成医, 病人之间可以分享自己的经验.
This is the medical care that goes beyond just medicines.	这是仅仅靠吃药无法达到的医疗护理.
So the mothers who work for us, they come from the communities in which they work.	所以这些为我们工作的母亲, 她们来自于她们工作所在的地区.
They're hired -- they're paid as professional members of the health care teams, just like doctors and nurses.	她们受雇成为职业医疗护理队伍的一员, 就像医生和护士一样.
And we open bank accounts for them and they're paid directly into the accounts, because their money's protected; the men can't take it away from them.	我们为她们开了银行帐户, 她们的薪水是直接存到她们的帐户里, 这样她们的钱就是安全的; 男人们不能把这些钱从她们身上拿走.
They go through two to three weeks of rigorous curriculum-based education, training.	她们会接受两到三周的 严格的课程式教育和训练.
Now, doctors and nurses -- they too get trained.	现在, 医生和护士也会接受培训.
But so often, they only get trained once, so they're not aware of new medicines, new guidelines as they come out.	但是经常, 他们只受到一次培训, 所以他们并不了解最新的医药, 和最新出来的医疗指导
Our mentor mothers get trained every single year and retrained.	我们的母亲指导员们每年都要接受培训 和再培训.
And so doctors and nurses -- they look up to them as experts.	所以医生和护士, 他们把这些母亲指导员看成专家.
Imagine that: a woman, a former patient, being able to educate her doctor for the first time and educate the other patients that she's taking care of.	想象一下: 一个女人, 之前是病人, 现在却能够开始教她的医生 还有其他病人 -- 那些由她照顾的病人.
Our organization has three goals.	我们的组织有三个目标.
The first, to prevent mother-to-child transmission.	第一: 防止母子垂直传染.
The second: keep mothers healthy, keep mothers alive, keep the children alive -- no more orphans.	第二: 保持母亲健康, 让她们生存下去. 让孩子生存下去. 再也不让他们成为孤儿了.
And the third, and maybe the most grand, is to find ways to empower women, enable them to fight the stigma and to live positive and productive lives with HIV.	第三, 或许是最高的目标, 就是给这些女性予力量, 让她们克服羞耻感, 积极向上、更好地活着, 即使她们是艾滋病患者.
So how do we do it?	那我们怎样做到这些呢?
Well, maybe the most important engagement is the one-to-one, seeing patients one-to-one, educating them, supporting them, explaining how they can take care of themselves.	也许最重要的尝试就是, 一对一的沟通, 一对一的看望病人, 教他们, 支持她们, 告诉她们如何去照顾自己.
We go beyond that; we try to bring in the husbands, the partners.	我们所做的还不仅限于此. 我们尝试让丈夫们或者配偶们加入进来.
In Africa, it's very, very hard to engage men.	在非洲, 我们很难说动男人, 让他们参与进来.
Men are not frequently part of pregnancy care.	一般男人们都不是孕期护理的一分子.
But in Rwanda, in one country, they've got a policy that a woman can't come for care unless she brings the father of the baby with her -- that's the rule.	但是在卢旺达, 就在这个国家, 他们制定了一个政策, 即, 一个女人单凭自身是无法获得这里的医疗护理, 除非, 她将孩子的父亲也一并带来. 这是规定.
And so the father and the mother, together, go through the counseling and the testing.	因此, 孩子的父亲和母亲将一起, 接受咨询辅导和疾病检测.
The father and the mother, together, they get the results.	同样, 孩子的父亲和母亲将一起面对检测结果.
And this is so important in breaking through the stigma.	这样做对于克服羞耻感是相当重要的一步.
Disclosure is so central to prevention.	披露病情对疾病防预是很关键的环节.
How do you have safer sex, how do you use a condom regularly if there hasn't been disclosure?	你如何能拥有更安全的性生活, 如何能有规律地使用避孕套? 如果没有披露病情的话.
Disclosure is so important to treatment, because again, people need the support of family members and friends to take their medicines regularly.	公开病情对治疗是如此的重要, 因为, 同样的, 人们需要家人和朋友的支持 以帮助他们定期用药.
We also work in groups.	我们也通过团队的方式来完成这些工作.
Now the groups, it's not like me lecturing, but what happens is women, they come together -- under the support and guidance of our mentor mothers -- they come together, and they share their personal experiences.	现在, 这些团队,并这不像我在讲课一样, 而是, 女人们自己走到一起, 通过我们的母亲指导员的支持和引导 她们走到一起, 分享各自的经验.
And it's through the sharing that people get tactics of how to take care of themselves, how to disclose how to take medicines.	正是通过这种交流, 人们学会如何照顾自己, 如何披露自己的病情, 如何用药.
And then there's the community outreach, engaging women in their communities.	还能在当地起到示范效应, 鼓励当地的女性参与进来.
If we can change the way households believe and think, we can change the way communities believe and think.	如果我们能够改变 每一户人家的所信和所想, 我们就能改变这个地区人们的所信和所想.
And if we can change enough communities, we can change national attitudes.	如果我们能够改变足够多的区域, 我们就能改变整个国家的态度.
We can change national attitudes to women and national attitudes to HIV.	我们能够改变整个国家对女性的态度 以及他们对艾滋病病毒的态度.
The hardest barrier really is around stigma reduction.	其实最大的困难是减轻人们对艾滋病病毒的羞耻感.
We have the medicines, we have the tests, but how do you reduce the stigma?	我们有药品, 我们有疾病检测。 但是我们如何减轻人们的羞耻感呢?
And it's important about disclosure.	而这对病情能否披露又很重要.
So, a couple years ago, one of the mentor mothers came back, and she told me a story.	所以, 几年前, 有一个母亲指导员回来找我们, 她跟我讲了一个故事.
She had been asked by one of the clients to go to the home of the client, because the client wanted to tell the mother and her brothers and sisters about her HIV status, and she was afraid to go by herself.	她的一个病人请求她 到这个病人的家里, 因为这个病人要告诉她的母亲,兄弟和姐妹 她的艾滋病病情, 但她害怕一个人去.
And so the mentor mother went along with.	所以这个母亲指导员就跟着去了.
And the patient walked into the house and said to her mother and siblings, "I have something to tell you. I'm HIV-positive."	这病人走进屋子里 跟她的母亲和兄弟姐妹说： "我想告诉你们一些事. 我是艾滋病带菌者."
And everybody was quiet.	这时, 每个人都很安静.
And then her oldest brother stood up and said, "I too have something to tell you.	随后, 她最大的哥哥站起来说： "我也有些事要告诉你们.
I'm HIV-positive.	我是艾滋病带菌者.
I've been afraid to tell everybody."	我一直不敢告诉大家."
And then this older sister stood up and said, "I too am living with the virus, and I've been ashamed."	然后她的大姐站起来说, "我也带着这种病毒, 我一直觉得很羞耻."
And then her younger brother stood up and said, "I'm also positive.	然后比她年轻一些的弟弟也站起来说, "我也是呈阳性.
I thought you were going to throw me out of the family."	我以为你们会把我赶出这个家."
And you see where this is going.	你可以看出事情是如何发展的.
The last sister stood up and said, "I'm also positive.	最后一个妹妹站起来说, "我也是呈阳性的.
I thought you were going to hate me."	我以为你们都会讨厌我."
And there they were, all of them together for the first time being able to share this experience for the first time and to support each other for the first time.	就这样, 他们一家人终于 能够一起分享经验, 也首次能够彼此互相支持.
Female Women come to us, and they are crying and scared.	女声: 女人们来找我们, 她们都在哭,很害怕。
I tell them my story, that I am HIV-positive, but my child is HIV-negative.	我告诉她们我的故事, 我是个艾滋病带菌者, 但是我的孩子没有染上艾滋病病毒.
I tell them, "You are going to make it, and you will raise a healthy baby."	我告诉她们, "你们都能够生存下去, 你们都会有一个健康的孩子."
I am proof that there is hope.	我自己就是证明, 证明希望是存在的.
Mitchell Besser: Remember the images I showed you of how few doctors and nurses there are in Africa.	Mitchell Besser: 记住我给你们看的图像, 在非洲, 那里的医生和护士是多么稀缺.
And it is a crisis in health care systems.	这是一个当地医疗护理系统所存在的危机.
Even as we have more tests and more drugs, we can't reach people; we don't have enough providers.	就算我们有更多的检测手段和药品, 我们也难以遍及这么多人; 我们没有足够的人手.
So we talk in terms of what we call task-shifting.	所以, 我们提及所谓的任务转移.
Task-shifting is traditionally when you take health care services from one provider and have another provider do it.	任务转移在传统上即 你在这个医疗服务提供者这里得到了 由另外一个人为你提供的医疗服务.
Typically, it's a doctor giving a job to a nurse.	比如,一个医生将工作交给一个护士去完成.
And the issue in Africa is that there are fewer nurses, really than doctors, and so we need to find new paradigm for health care.	但在非洲, 问题是 那里的护士却比医生要少, 所以我们要找到新的方式来提供医疗服务.
How do you build a better health care system?	如何才能建立一个更好的医疗服务体系呢?
We've chosen to redefine the health care system as a doctor, a nurse and a mentor mother.	我们选择将医疗服务体系重新界定为 由医生,护士和母亲指导员组合在一起的体系.
And so what nurses do is that they ask the mentor mothers to explain how to take the drugs, the side effects.	护士们所做的 就是安排母亲指导员, 去告诉病人 如何用药,有什么副作用.
They delegate education about infant feeding, family planning, safer sex, actions that nurses simple just don't have time for.	母亲指导员教病人喂养婴儿, 做生育计划, 并实现安全的性生活, 这些都是护士们没有时间去做的事.
So we go back to the prevention of mother to child transmission.	现在我们回到防止母子传染这个话题上来.
The world is increasingly seeing these programs as the bridge to comprehensive maternal and child health.	人们越来越倾向于将这些项目看作是 通向实现母子全面健康的桥梁.
And our organization helps women across that bridge.	我们的组织则 帮助女性跨过这座桥梁.
The care doesn't stop when the baby's born -- we deal with the ongoing health of the mother and baby, ensuring that they live healthy, successful lives.	这些护理并不会因为婴儿的出生就停止. 我们继续关注母亲和婴儿的健康, 让他们过上健康、 美好的生活.
Our organization works on three levels.	我们的组织在三个层面上工作.
The first, at the patient level -- mothers and babies keeping babies from getting HIV, keeping mothers healthy to raise them.	第一, 在病人层面上-- 着眼于母亲和孩子, 保护孩子, 不让他们感染艾滋病病毒, 让母亲能够健康地养育他们.
The second, communities -- empowering women.	第二, 社区层面 -- 鼓励女性, 给她们力量.
They become leaders within their communities.	让她们成为所在地区团体的领导.
They change the way communities think -- we need to change attitudes to HIV.	去改变当地人们的的看法. 我们需要改变人们对艾滋病病毒的态度.
We need to change attitudes to women in Africa.	我们需要改变非洲人们对女性的态度.
We have to do that.	我们必须做到这点.
And then rework the level of the health care systems, building stronger health care systems.	然后重新运作医疗服务体系, 在这个层面, 建立更健全的医疗保健系统.
Our health care systems are broken.	我们的医疗服务体系存在诸多漏洞.
They're not going to work the way they're currently designed.	以现有的架构, 他们是难以起到作用的.
And so doctors and nurses who need to try to change people's behaviors don't have the skills, don't have the time -- our mentor mothers do.	因此,当医生和护士们, 当他们没有技巧, 也没有时间去帮助人们 改变相应行为时, 我们的母亲指导员们能做到这些.
And so in redefining the health care teams by bringing the mentor mothers in, we can do that.	所以,通过将母亲指导员引入医疗服务体系, 我们能做到这点.
I started the program in Capetown, South Africa back in 2001.	我在南非开普敦开始了这个项目, 在2001年时,
It was at that point, just the spark of an idea.	在那个时候, 这只是一个思想的火花.
Referencing Steven Johnson's very lovely speech yesterday on where ideas come from, I was in the shower at the time -- I was alone.	想到Steven Johnson昨天所做的演讲 关于好主意的来源, 当这个思想火花闪现时,我正在洗澡. 只有我一个人.
The program is now working in nine countries, we have 670 program sites, we're seeing about 230,000 women every month, we're employing 1,600 mentor mothers, and last year, they enrolled 300,000 HIV-positive pregnant women and mothers.	这个项目现正在九个国家推广. 我们有670个项目点. 我们每月接见大概23万 女性. 我们聘请1,600个母亲指导员. 去年,她们共照看了 30万个带有艾滋病病毒的孕妇和母亲.
That is 20 percent of the global HIV-positive pregnant women -- 20 percent of the world.	这占到了全球20%的 感染艾滋病病毒的怀孕妇女, 全世界的20%.
What's extraordinary is how simple the premise is.	不可思议的是它的基本构思是多么的简单.
Mothers with HIV caring for mothers with HIV.	用带有艾滋病毒的母亲来照顾带有艾滋病毒的母亲.
Past patients taking care of present patients.	过去的病人来照顾现在的病人.
And empowerment through employment -- reducing stigma.	和通过雇佣关系来给予他们权威和力量, 减少忌讳和羞耻感.
Female There is hope, hope that one day we shall win this fight against HIV and AIDS.	女声: 我们希望, 希望有一天 我们能赢得这场 对抗艾滋病病毒和艾滋病的战斗.
Each person must know their HIV status.	每一个人都必须清楚 他们的艾滋病病毒感染情况.
Those who are HIV-negative must know how to stay negative.	那些不带有艾滋病菌的人 必须知道怎样让自己不感染上艾滋病病毒.
Those who are HIV-infected must know how to take care of themselves.	那些受到艾滋病感染的人 必须知道怎样 来照顾他们自己.
HIV-positive pregnant women must get PMTCT services in order to have HIV-negative babies.	带有艾滋病病毒的怀孕母亲 必须通过PMTCT治疗 以生出 不带艾滋病病毒的婴儿.
All of this is possible, if we each contribute to this fight.	所有这些都是有可能的, 如果我们每个人都投入这场战斗.
MB: Simple solutions to complex problems.	MB: 用简单的方法来解决复杂的问题.
Mothers caring for mothers.	母亲照顾母亲.
It's transformational.	这将带来伟大的变革.
Thank you.	谢谢你们.
The job of uncovering the global food waste scandal started for me when I was 15 years old.	这项揭露全球粮食浪费丑闻的任务 从我15岁起便开始了。
I bought some pigs. I was living in Sussex.	我买了一些猪。当时我住在萨塞克斯郡。
And I started to feed them in the most traditional and environmentally friendly way.	我开始用最传统 和环保的方式饲养它们。
I went to my school kitchen, and I said, "Give me the scraps that my school friends have turned their noses up at."	我去了学校的厨房，我说， "把那些我朋友们所看不上的 残羹剩饭都给我。"
I went to the local baker and took their stale bread.	我去了当地的面包店，向他们要了那些不新鲜的面包。
I went to the local greengrocer, and I went to a farmer who was throwing away potatoes because they were the wrong shape or size for supermarkets.	我去了当地的蔬菜水果店，还去找了一个 正在丢弃土豆的农民， 仅仅是因为它们形状和尺寸不符合超市的需求。
This was great. My pigs turned that food waste into delicious pork. I sold that pork to my school friends' parents, and I made a good pocket money addition to my teenage allowance.	一切都很顺利。我养的那些猪把食物残渣 都转变成了美味的猪肉。我把猪肉 卖给学校里朋友们的家长，并且我也从中赚到 额外的零花钱。
But I noticed that most of the food that I was giving my pigs was in fact fit for human consumption, and that I was only scratching the surface, and that right the way up the food supply chain, in supermarkets, greengrocers, bakers, in our homes, in factories and farms, we were hemorrhaging out food.	但是后来我意识到，我喂猪所用的大部分食物 都是人类可食用的， 而我也只触到了问题表面， 在整条食物链的最上面， 在超市里，在蔬菜水果店里，在面包店里，在我们的家里， 在工厂和农场里，我们都在大量地、疯狂地浪费着食物。
Supermarkets didn't even want to talk to me about how much food they were wasting.	那些超市的负责人甚至都不愿意跟我讨论 那些他们到底浪费了多少粮食的话题。
I'd been round the back. I'd seen bins full of food being locked and then trucked off to landfill sites, and I thought, surely there is something more sensible to do with food than waste it.	我曾经绕到超市的后面。我亲眼目睹了那些装满食物的垃圾桶 被锁在卡车里，然后被送往垃圾场填埋， 然后我就在想，肯定有更合理的处理食物的方法， 而不是浪费它们。
One morning, when I was feeding my pigs, I noticed a particularly tasty-looking sun-dried tomato loaf that used to crop up from time to time.	一天早上，当我正在喂我的猪时， 我看到一块看起来很美味的晒干的西红柿面包， 它们常常会出现。
I grabbed hold of it, sat down, and ate my breakfast with my pigs.	我抓起了它， 坐了下来，跟我的那些猪共进早餐。
That was the first act of what I later learned to call freeganism, really an exhibition of the injustice of food waste, and the provision of the solution to food waste, which is simply to sit down and eat food, rather than throwing it away.	这就是我第一次做出这种后来被我称呼为"免费素食主义"的举动， 实际上体现出的是对浪费食物的不满， 并且提供了浪费食物的解决方案， 那就是，坐下来，吃完它， 而不是把它丢掉。
That became, as it were, a way of confronting large businesses in the business of wasting food, and exposing, most importantly, to the public, that when we're talking about food being thrown away, we're not talking about rotten stuff, we're not talking about stuff that's beyond the pale.	这种行为变成一种对大型产业 浪费食物行为的抵抗， 更重要的是，去向大众揭露， 当我们在说被丢弃的食品时， 我们说的不是腐烂的食品，我们说的不是 那些难以下咽的食物。
We're talking about good, fresh food that is being wasted on a colossal scale.	我们说的是那些完好的，新鲜的食物 在被大规模地浪费掉。
Eventually, I set about writing my book, really to demonstrate the extent of this problem on a global scale. What this shows is a nation-by-nation breakdown of the likely level of food waste in each country in the world.	终于，我决定写一本书， 来说明这个问题在国际上的广度。 这个显示出的是 世界上每个国家对食物可能的 浪费程度。
Unfortunately, empirical data, good, hard stats, don't exist, and therefore to prove my point, I first of all had to find some proxy way of uncovering how much food was being wasted.	但是很可惜，实际、确凿的数据很难统计， 因此，为了证明我的观点，我首先得通过 一些替代的方式来揭露 有多少食物被浪费了。
So I took the food supply of every single country and I compared it to what was actually likely to be being consumed in each country.	于是，我把各国的食物供应量 跟其自身的实际消耗量 拿来做比较。
That's based on diet intake surveys, it's based on levels of obesity, it's based on a range of factors that gives you an approximate guess as to how much food is actually going into people's mouths.	这些数据是基于食物摄入量的调查问卷基础上， 再加上肥胖程度和很多其他不同的因素， 来得出一个大概的 关于究竟有多少食物真正进入了人们的口中的推测。
That black line in the middle of that table is the likely level of consumption with an allowance for certain levels of inevitable waste.	表格中间的黑线 是食物消耗量的大概数值 当中包括了一定量的无法避免的浪费。
There will always be waste. I'm not that unrealistic that I think we can live in a waste-free world.	浪费永远都会存在。 我还不至于不切实际到去 以为我们可以生活在一个毫无浪费的世界里。
But that black line shows what a food supply should be in a country if they allow for a good, stable, secure, nutritional diet for every person in that country.	但是那条黑线显示出 一个具备良好的，稳定的，安全的 有营养的食品的国家应该供应给每个人的食物量。
Any dot above that line, and you'll quickly notice that that includes most countries in the world, represents unnecessary surplus, and is likely to reflect levels of waste in each country.	你会发现，世界上绝大多数的国家 都处于这条线的上方， 代表着不必要的盈余，也反映出 每个国家的食物浪费量。
As a country gets richer, it invests more and more in getting more and more surplus into its shops and restaurants, and as you can see, most European and North American countries fall between 150 and 200 percent of the nutritional requirements of their populations.	当一个国家变富裕时，它会投入越来越多的资产 来购买大量的、额外的存货 导致商店和餐馆里产生更多的浪费， 同时你可以看到，大多数欧洲 和北美的国家 消耗着150％到200％的 国家总人口营养需求量。
So a country like America has twice as much food on its shop shelves and in its restaurants than is actually required to feed the American people.	所以一个像美国这样的国家 在它商店货架上和餐馆里所拥有的食物 比实际需要喂饱所有美国人的量还多出一倍。
But the thing that really struck me, when I plotted all this data, and it was a lot of numbers, was that you can see how it levels off.	但是当我处理这些大量的数据时， 一件深深震撼我的事就是， 如你所见，数据点逐渐趋于平缓。
Countries rapidly shoot towards that 150 mark, and then they level off, and they don't really go on rising as you might expect.	各个国家的点很快升至150的标记，而在到达这个界限后 便趋于平稳，而非像你所预期的那样 继续上升。
So I decided to unpack that data a little bit further to see if that was true or false.	所以我决定更近一步的解读这些数据 来看这到底是准确的还是错误的。
And that's what I came up with.	这就是我所发现的。
If you include not just the food that ends up in shops and restaurants, but also the food that people feed to livestock, the maize, the soy, the wheat, that humans could eat but choose to fatten livestock instead to produce increasing amounts of meat and dairy products, what you find is that most rich countries have between three and four times the amount of food that their population needs to feed itself.	如果不仅仅包括是那些最终 流向在商店和餐馆的食物，而且还包括 人们用来饲养牲畜的食物： 那些玉米、大豆、小麦，等等人类本可以食用 但是却选择给牲畜用来增肥 以便制造更多肉类和奶制品， 你会发现，大多数富裕的国家 消耗着它人口所需要的 三到四倍多的食物。
A country like America has four times the amount of food that it needs.	一个像美国这样的国家有着它人口所需要的 四倍的食物。
When people talk about the need to increase global food production to feed those nine billion people that are expected on the planet by 2050, I always think of these graphs.	当人们在讨论着需要扩大全球 粮食产量来喂饱2050年之际 预计的全球90亿人口， 我总是会想起这些图表。
The fact is, we have an enormous buffer in rich countries between ourselves and hunger.	实际上，富裕的国家为我们和饥饿之间 提供庞大的缓冲。
We've never had such gargantuan surpluses before.	我们之前从未有过如此庞大的盈余。
In many ways, this is a great success story of human civilization, of the agricultural surpluses that we set out to achieve 12,000 years ago.	在很多方面，这是一个人类文明的成功的故事： 在农业富余方面 我们达到了12,000年前所定的目标。
It is a success story. It has been a success story.	这是一个成功的故事。这一直都是一个成功的故事。
But what we have to recognize now is that we are reaching the ecological limits that our planet can bear, and when we chop down forests, as we are every day, to grow more and more food, when we extract water from depleting water reserves, when we emit fossil fuel emissions in the quest to grow more and more food, and then we throw away so much of it, we have to think about what we can start saving.	但是我们现在要认识到的是我们已经 要达到地球所能承受的生态极限， 每天，当我们砍下一片片树林， 来增加越来越多的食物， 当我们从渐渐耗尽的水资源中提取水， 当我们排放着化石燃料的废气 来增加越来越多的食物， 然后再把这么多的食物都丢弃， 我们必须想一想我们能开始保存下些什么。
And yesterday, I went to one of the local supermarkets that I often visit to inspect, if you like, what they're throwing away.	昨天，我去了一家我常去的 本地的超市 去察看他们丢弃了些什么。
I found quite a few packets of biscuits amongst all the fruit and vegetables and everything else that was in there.	我找到了很多包饼干 还有很多水果蔬菜和其他的一些东西 都在废弃物之列。
And I thought, well this could serve as a symbol for today.	然后我想到，这个可以作为今天的一个象征。
So I want you to imagine that these nine biscuits that I found in the bin represent the global food supply, okay? We start out with nine.	所以我想让你们把这9块我在垃圾桶里找到的饼干 想象成全球粮食供应， 好吗？我们最初有9块。
That's what's in fields around the world every single year.	这是全球每年的食物产量。
The first biscuit we're going to lose before we even leave the farm.	第一块饼干在我们离开农场之前 就会失去。
That's a problem primarily associated with developing work agriculture, whether it's a lack of infrastructure, refrigeration, pasteurization, grain stores, even basic fruit crates, which means that food goes to waste before it even leaves the fields.	这个问题主要与 农业工作发展有关，不管它是 缺乏基础设施，制冷设备，杀菌技术， 以及粮油店，甚至基本的水果箱，这意味着 食物在离开产地之前就会被浪费掉。
The next three biscuits are the foods that we decide to feed to livestock, the maize, the wheat and the soya.	下面三块饼干是在我们决定用来 饲养牲畜用的食物：玉米，小麦和大豆。
Unfortunately, our beasts are inefficient animals, and they turn two-thirds of that into feces and heat, so we've lost those two, and we've only kept this one in meat and dairy products.	不幸的是，我们的野兽们是低效的动物们， 它们把2/3都转换成粪便和热量， 因此我们丢失了两块饼干，我们只保留下这一块 代表肉类和奶制品。
Two more we're going to throw away directly into bins.	还有两块我们会直接丢进垃圾桶里。
This is what most of us think of when we think of food waste, what ends up in the garbage, what ends up in supermarket bins, what ends up in restaurant bins. We've lost another two, and we've left ourselves with just four biscuits to feed on.	这就是我们大多数人所认为的 食物浪费，那些最终到了垃圾桶里的， 最终到了超市的垃圾桶里的， 最终到了餐馆的垃圾桶里的。于是我们又失去了两块， 而我们只为自己留下四块能食用的饼干。
That is not a superlatively efficient use of global resources, especially when you think of the billion hungry people that exist already in the world.	这种利用全球资源的方式并不高效， 特别是当你想起这个世界上有多少亿的人们 正在挨饿着。
Having gone through the data, I then needed to demonstrate where that food ends up.	研究过这些数据，我还需要 演示这些食物最终去了那里。
Where does it end up? We're used to seeing the stuff on our plates, but what about all the stuff that goes missing in between?	它去了哪里呢？我们习惯于看到那些在我们盘子上的 食物，但是那些在这之前不见的 食物去了哪里呢？
Supermarkets are an easy place to start.	超市是个容易开始着手的地方。
This is the result of my hobby, which is unofficial bin inspections.	而这是我爱好的结果， 就是非官方的垃圾桶检查。
Strange you might think, but if we could rely on corporations to tell us what they were doing in the back of their stores, we wouldn't need to go sneaking around the back, opening up bins and having a look at what's inside.	你会想这很奇怪，但是如果我们能靠企业 来告诉我们他们在店里都在做些什么， 我们就不必要偷偷摸摸的跑到店后面， 打开垃圾桶去看里面有什么。
But this is what you can see more or less on every street corner in Britain, in Europe, in North America.	但是这就是你或多或少 能在英国，欧洲和北美的大街小巷里看到的。
It represents a colossal waste of food, but what I discovered whilst I was writing my book was that this very evident abundance of waste was actually the tip of the iceberg.	这表明了庞大的食物浪费， 但是在写书期间我发现 这些显而易见的大量浪费 其实只是冰山一角。
When you start going up the supply chain, you find where the real food waste is happening on a gargantuan scale.	当你开始从食物供应链往上， 你就会发现庞大规模的食物浪费 正在发生
Can I have a show of hands if you have a loaf of sliced bread in your house?	我想让在座的各位来次举手投票： 如果你的家里有一条切片面包，
Who lives in a household where that crust -- that slice at the first and last end of each loaf -- who lives in a household where it does get eaten?	谁会把那些面包皮—— 就是那第一片和最后一片面包片—— 哪些家庭会把这些吃掉？
Okay, most people, not everyone, but most people, and this is, I'm glad to say, what I see across the world, and yet has anyone seen a supermarket or sandwich shop anywhere in the world that serves sandwiches with crusts on it?	好的，大部分人，不是所有人，但是绝大多数人， 而这也是，我很高兴地说，全球都是这样， 但是有没有人看到超市或者三明治店里 世上任何地方卖的三明治 上面有面包皮？
I certainly haven't.	至少我没见过。
So I kept on thinking, where do those crusts go?	所以我继续想，这些面包皮都去了哪里？
This is the answer, unfortunately: 13,000 slices of fresh bread coming out of this one single factory every single day, day-fresh bread.	这就是答案，很不幸： 每天都有13,000块新鲜面包 从这一个工厂里产出，这是非常新鲜的、刚出炉的面包。
In the same year that I visited this factory, I went to Pakistan, where people in 2008 were going hungry as a result of a squeeze on global food supplies.	在我访问这个工厂的同一年， 我去了巴基斯坦，那儿2008年时还有很多人还在挨饿。 这是全球粮食供应紧张造成的。
We contribute to that squeeze by depositing food in bins here in Britain and elsewhere in the world. We take food off the market shelves that hungry people depend on.	是我们导致了供给紧张， 我们把食物丢进英国垃圾桶里 还有世界各处。我们把 那些饥饿的人赖以生存的食物从商店货架上拿了下来。
Go one step up, and you get to farmers, who throw away sometimes a third or even more of their harvest because of cosmetic standards.	往上走一步，你就能找到农民， 他们把三分之一或者更多的 收成都丢掉，只因为外形标准。
This farmer, for example, has invested 16,000 pounds in growing spinach, not one leaf of which he harvested, because there was a little bit of grass growing in amongst it.	举例说，这个农民投资了16,000英镑 来种菠菜，但是没有收割一片叶子， 因为菠菜之间长了一些草。
Potatoes that are cosmetically imperfect, all going for pigs.	那些外形不完美的土豆 都归猪所有。
Parsnips that are too small for supermarket specifications, tomatoes in Tenerife, oranges in Florida, bananas in Ecuador, where I visited last year, all being discarded. This is one day's waste from one banana plantation in Ecuador.	对超市来说太小的欧洲萝卜， 特内里费的西红柿， 佛罗里达的橙子， 厄瓜多尔的香蕉，那是我去年去过的地方， 都被丢弃了。这是厄瓜多尔的 一个香蕉种植园一天之内的废弃量。
All being discarded, perfectly edible, because they're the wrong shape or size.	全部被丢弃了，明明完全都能食用， 只因为它们的形状或者大小不对。
If we do that to fruit and vegetables, you bet we can do it to animals too.	如果我们对水果和蔬菜这样做， 我们肯定也会这样对待动物。
Liver, lungs, heads, tails, kidneys, testicles, all of these things which are traditional, delicious and nutritious parts of our gastronomy go to waste. Offal consumption has halved in Britain and America in the last 30 years.	肝脏，肺脏，头部，尾部， 肾脏，睾丸， 所有这些被丢弃的脏器都是传统意义上 可口又营养的美食部分。 最近30年，内脏消费量在 英国和美国减少了一半。
As a result, this stuff gets fed to dogs at best, or is incinerated.	结果是，这些东西最好的下场是喂狗吃了， 或者被焚烧。
This man, in Kashgar, Xinjiang province, in Western China, is serving up his national dish.	这个男人，在中国西部的新疆省喀什市， 正在做他的民族佳肴。
It's called sheep's organs.	它叫做羊内脏。
It's delicious, it's nutritious, and as I learned when I went to Kashgar, it symbolizes their taboo against food waste.	既美味又有营养， 还有我去喀什的时候学到， 它代表食物浪费的禁忌。
I was sitting in a roadside cafe.	当我坐在路边的咖啡馆里，
A chef came to talk to me, I finished my bowl, and halfway through the conversation, he stopped talking and he started frowning into my bowl.	一个厨师来跟我说话，我刚吃完了我碗里的饭， 而话谈到一半，他不说话了 然后开始对着我的碗皱眉头。
I thought, "My goodness, what taboo have I broken?	我想，"天啊，我打破了哪些禁忌？
How have I insulted my host?"	我如何侮辱了这个厨师？"
He pointed at three grains of rice at the bottom of my bowl, and he said, "Clean."	他指着我碗底的三粒米， 然后说"吃干净。" (笑声）
I thought, "My God, you know, I go around the world telling people to stop wasting food.	我想，"天啊，你知道，我到世界各地 告诉大家停止浪费食物。
This guy has thrashed me at my own game."	这个人居然在我的游戏里让我输得一败涂地。"(笑声）
But it gave me faith. It gave me faith that we, the people, do have the power to stop this tragic waste of resources if we regard it as socially unacceptable to waste food on a colossal scale, if we make noise about it, tell corporations about it, tell governments we want to see an end to food waste, we do have the power to bring about that change.	但是这给了我信心。它给了我信心，我们人类 有力量来停止这种悲剧般的资源浪费 如果我们把大规模的食物浪费视作 不被社会接受的， 如果我们发出声音，告诉企业， 告诉政府我们不想再看到食物被浪费， 我们有能力来带来变化。
Fish, 40 to 60 percent of European fish are discarded at sea, they don't even get landed.	鱼，40%到60%的欧洲的鱼 被丢弃在海里，他们甚至都没上过岸。
In our homes, we've lost touch with food.	在我们的家里，我们已经失去了与食品的接触。
This is an experiment I did on three lettuces.	这是一个我在三棵生菜上做的实验。
Who keeps lettuces in their fridge?	谁把生菜放在冰箱里？
Most people. The one on the left was kept in a fridge for 10 days.	大部分人。左边的 是在冰箱放了10天的。
The one in the middle, on my kitchen table. Not much difference.	中间的那棵，是放在我厨房桌上的。没什么区别。
The one on the right I treated like cut flowers.	右边的这棵我把它视为精心修剪的花。
It's a living organism, cut the slice off, stuck it in a vase of water, it was all right for another two weeks after this.	它是一个有生命的机体，我把它一片一片切下来， 放在一个有水的花瓶里， 它在两周后都是好的。
Some food waste, as I said at the beginning, will inevitably arise, so the question is, what is the best thing to do with it?	有些食物浪费，像我在一开始说的那样， 是不可避免的，所以问题是， 最好的解决方法是什么？
I answered that question when I was 15.	我15岁就回答了那个问题。
In fact, humans answered that question 6,000 years ago: We domesticated pigs to turn food waste back into food.	实际上，人类在6,000年前就回答了这个问题： 我们驯化了猪， 把食物残渣转换成食物。
And yet, in Europe, that practice has become illegal since 2001 as a result of the foot-and-mouth outbreak.	然而，在欧洲，这种做法已成为非法行为 自从2001年口蹄疫爆发后。
It's unscientific. It's unnecessary.	这不科学，也毫无必要。
If you cook food for pigs, just as if you cook food for humans, it is rendered safe.	如果你做饭给猪，就像 你做饭给人类一样，就是安全的。
It's also a massive saving of resources.	同时也能减少很多资源利用。
At the moment, Europe depends on importing millions of tons of soy from South America, where its production contributes to global warming, to deforestation, to biodiversity loss, to feed livestock here in Europe.	现在，欧洲依赖着从南美进口 几百万吨黄豆， 其生产导致全球气候变暖， 大片森林遭砍伐以及生物多样性的丧失， 来饲养在欧洲的牲畜。
At the same time we throw away millions of tons of food waste which we could and should be feeding them.	同时我们扔掉几百万吨 可以饲养这些牲畜的食物。
If we did that, and fed it to pigs, we would save that amount of carbon.	如果我们那样做了，把它喂给猪，我们可以减少 那么多的二氧化碳。
If we feed our food waste which is the current government favorite way of getting rid of food waste, to anaerobic digestion, which turns food waste into gas to produce electricity, you save a paltry 448 kilograms of carbon dioxide per ton of food waste. It's much better to feed it to pigs.	如果我们浪费的食物， 这是现在政府最喜欢用的处理剩余的食物的方法， 进行厌氧消化，将食物渣滓 转换成汽油来生产电， 你能省下微不足道的448公斤的二氧化碳 在每吨食物残渣里。把这些食物残渣喂给猪更好。
We knew that during the war.	在战争时期我们就懂得。
A silver lining: It has kicked off globally, the quest to tackle food waste.	有一线希望：它在全球已经拉开序幕， 就是寻求解决粮食的浪费的方法。
Feeding the 5,000 is an event I first organized in 2009.	Feeding the 5000是一个我在2009年第一次组织的活动。
We fed 5,000 people all on food that otherwise would have been wasted.	我们用本会被丢弃的食物 喂饱了5000个人。
Since then, it's happened again in London, it's happening internationally, and across the country.	从那以后，在伦敦又进行过一次， 全国各地以及国际上也在进行着。
It's a way of organizations coming together to celebrate food, to say the best thing to do with food is to eat and enjoy it, and to stop wasting it.	这是所有组织在一起 赞美食物，并同意处理食物的最好方法 就是吃它和享受它，而不要去浪费。
For the sake of the planet we live on, for the sake of our children, for the sake of all the other organisms that share our planet with us, we are a terrestrial animal, and we depend on our land for food. At the moment, we are trashing our land to grow food that no one eats.	为了我们所赖以生存在的地球， 为了我们的孩子， 为了其它 跟我们一起分享地球的生物， 我们是陆生动物，而我们依赖我们的土地 来给我们供应食物。此刻，我们正在摧毁我们的土地 来栽种没有人吃的食物。
Stop wasting food. Thank you very much.	停止浪费食物。非常感谢。（鼓掌声）
	（鼓掌声）
Compassion: what does it look like?	同情心。 同情心看起来是什么样的？
Come with me to 915 South Bloodworth Street in Raleigh, North Carolina, where I grew up.	跟我一起来到北卡罗莱纳州 的南布拉德沃斯大街上，我成长的地方。
If you come in you will see us: evening time, at table -- set for ten but not always all seats filled -- at the point when dinner is ready to be served.	如果你进来，你会在晚上看到我们， 十个人围成一桌，但并不是每个位子上都有人。 晚餐准备好的时候，
Since mom had eight kids, sometimes she said she couldn't tell who was who and where they were.	因为妈妈有八个孩子， 有时她说她分不清谁是谁，都在哪儿。
Before we could eat, she would ask, "Are all the children in?"	但我们吃饭之前，她会问， "所有的孩子们都在吗？"
And if someone happened to be missing, we would have to, we say, "Fix a plate" for that person, put it in the oven, then we could say grace, and we could eat.	如果有人偶尔不在， 我们就会说，留一个盘子给他，放到烤箱里。 接着我们感恩祷告，然后开吃。
Also, while we were at the table, there was a ritual in our family: when something significant had happened for any one of us -- whether mom had just been elected as the president of the PTA, or whether dad had gotten an assignment at the college of our denomination, or whether someone had won the jabberwocky contest for talent -- the ritual at the family was, once the announcement is made, we must take five, ten minutes to do what we call "make over" that person -- that is, to make a fuss over the one who had been honored in some way.	所以，当大家坐在桌子前面的时候， 这是我们家的一个仪式， 当任何人身上发生意义重大的事情时， 比如当妈妈被选举为家长教师会的主席的时候， 或者当爸爸得到一份我们大学的教会的工作时。 或者有谁赢得口才比赛的时候， 我们家庭的传统仪式就是，在宣布完之后， 我们必须花五到十分钟时间来跟那个人总结一下， 就是，认认真真的表扬一下那个获得荣誉的人，
For when one is honored, all are honored.	就是一个人光荣，所有人都光荣。
Also, we had to make a report on our extended "visited" members, that is, extended members of the family, sick and elderly, shut in.	同样，我们还必须向我们的家族的客人报告一下。 那就是，家庭的扩展成员， 那些无法外出的病人和年长的人。
My task was, at least once a week, to visit Mother Lassiter who lived on East Street, Mother Williamson who lived on Bledsoe Avenue, and Mother Lathers who lived on Oberlin Road.	我的任务是，至少一周一次去拜访东街的 拉斯特大妈， 以及布莱索大道的威廉森大妈， 还有欧柏林路的拉舒大妈。
Why? Because they were old and infirm, and we needed to go by to see if they needed anything.	为什么？因为他们年迈体弱。 所以我们需要过去看看他们是不是需要任何东西。
For mom said, "To be family, is to care and share and to look out for one another.	妈妈说过："成为一个家庭，就是要关心和分享，并且去照顾别人。
They are our family."	他们也是我们家庭的成员."
And, of course, sometimes there was a bonus for going.	当然，偶尔也会有奖励。
They would offer sweets or money.	他们会准备一些糖果和零花钱。
Mom says, "If they ask you what it costs to either go shopping for them, you must always say, 'Nothing.' And if they insist, say, 'Whatever you mind to give me.'" This was the nature of being at that table.	妈妈说"如果他们问你买东西花了多少钱， 你必须说，'不要钱' 如果他们坚持你就说，'不管怎样你随便给一点'" 这是我们饭桌上的人的天性。
In fact, she indicated that if we would do that, not only would we have the joy of receiving the gratitude from the members of the extended family, but she said, "Even God will smile, and when God smiles, there is peace, and justice, and joy."	事实上，她表现出了，如果我们那样去做， 不只是我们会有收到扩展成员 的感激的喜悦， 她还说，"上帝也会微笑，并且上帝微笑的时候， 世间就充满了和平，公正和喜悦。"
So, at the table at 915, I learned something about compassion.	所以，在915的饭桌上，我学到了关于同情心很多东西。
Of course, it was a minister's family, so we had to add God into it.	当然，这是一个牧师的家庭， 所以我们必须把上帝也算进去。
And so, I came to think that mama eternal, mama eternal, is always wondering: Are all the children in?	因此，我一直在想永恒的妈妈 一直在问："所有的孩子都在吗？"
And if we had been faithful in caring and sharing, we had the sense that justice and peace would have a chance in the world.	并且，如果我们坚持关心和分享， 我们就坚信这个世界上公正和和平终会实现。
Now, it was not always wonderful at that table.	现在，那个饭桌并不总是美好的。
Let me explain a point at which we did not rise to the occasion.	我来解释一下我们为什么不能应付自如。
It was Christmas, and at our family, oh, what a morning.	那是圣诞节，在我们家的一个早晨，
Christmas morning, where we open up our gifts, where we have special prayers, and where we get to the old upright piano and we would sing carols. It was a very intimate moment.	圣诞节的早晨，我们打开我们的礼物， 我们有特殊祈祷的地方，我们到了老的立式钢琴的地方， 并且我们唱着颂歌。那是一个非常亲密的时刻。
In fact, you could come down to the tree to get your gifts and get ready to sing, and then get ready for breakfast without even taking a bath or getting dressed, except that daddy messed it up.	事实上，你可以从树上下来，拿到礼物并且准备唱颂歌， 然后甚至不用洗澡或者打扮好就可以吃早餐， 但爸爸却把一切搞砸了。
There was a member of his staff who did not have any place on that particular Christmas to celebrate.	因为他的一名同事没有地方去 在这个特殊的圣诞节。
And daddy brought Elder Revels to the Christmas family celebration.	然后爸爸带着他同事爱尔德来参加家庭庆祝。
We thought he must be out of his mind.	我们认为他一定是疯了。
This is our time. This is intimate time.	这是属于我们的时刻。这是个亲密的时刻。
This is when we can just be who we are, and now we have this stuffy brother with his shirt and tie on, while we are still in our PJs.	这是我们可以做我们真正的自己， 但是现在我们有了这个让人郁闷的哥们儿， 在我们仍然穿着睡衣的时候他却穿着西装和领带。
Why would daddy bring Elder Revels?	为什么爸爸要来爱尔德过来？
Any other time, but not to the Christmas celebration.	只要不是圣诞节，别的任何时候都行。
And mom overheard us and said, "Well, you know what? If you really understand the nature of this celebration, it is that this is a time where you extend the circle of love.	妈妈无意中听到我们的话， "你们知道吗？如果你真的理解庆祝的真正意义， 庆祝是你真正延伸你的爱的时刻。
That's what the celebration is all about.	这就是庆祝的真正意义。
It's time to make space, to share the enjoyment of life in a beloved community."	庆祝是制造空间，是在一个相亲相爱的家庭里分享生命的乐趣。"
So, we sucked up.	於是，我们忍过去了。
But growing up at 915, compassion was not a word to be debated; it was a sensibility to how we are together.	但在915长大，同情心并不是个用来辩论的词汇， 它是一种我们如何患难于共的情感。
We are sisters and brothers united together.	我们兄弟姐妹们心心相连。
And, like Chief Seattle said, "We did not spin the web of life.	就像是西雅图酋长所说"我们并不是在织生命的这张大网。
We're all strands in it.	我们只是在里面丝缕的。
And whatever we do to the web, we do to ourselves."	所以不管我们对这张网做什么，我们是对我们自己做的。"
Now that's compassion.	这就是同情心。
So, let me tell you, I kind of look at the world this way.	所以，我告诉你，我是这么来看这个世界的。
I see pictures, and something says, "Now, that's compassion."	我看图片，然后有些人说，"看，那是同情心。"
A harvested field of grain, with some grain in the corners, reminding me of the Hebrew tradition that you may indeed harvest, but you must always leave some on the edges, just in case there's someone who has not had the share necessary for good nurture.	一块收割完的谷田，一些谷物在角落里堆着 提醒着我犹太人的传统 你也许确实收割了， 但你必须一直留点别的东西在边上 留给那些没有得到足够的 养育的人。
Talk about a picture of compassion.	谈及同情心的一张图。
I see -- always, it stirs my heart -- a picture of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.	我看到一直震撼我心的 马丁路德.金博士的一张照片。
walking arm in arm with Andy Young and Rabbi Heschel and maybe Thich Nhat Hanh and some of the other saints assembled, walking across the bridge and going into Selma.	跟安迪和拉比手挽手往前走 也许是一行禅师和其它的圣徒， 向前走过桥然后去塞尔玛。
Just a photograph.	只是一张照片。
Arm in arm for struggle.	手挽手的奋斗。
Suffering together in a common hope that we can be brothers and sisters without the accidents of our birth or our ethnicity robbing us of a sense of unity of being.	即使没有血缘和宗教关系，为了一个共同的希望患难与共 能成为兄弟姐妹。 改变了我们的统一感。
So, there's another picture. Here, this one. I really do like this picture.	现在，还有另外一张照片。我真的喜欢这张照片。
When Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated, that day, everybody in my community was upset.	当马丁路德.金博士被暗杀后， 那天，我们社区里所有人都很伤心。
You heard about riots all across the land.	你会听到国家到处都有暴乱。
Bobby Kennedy was scheduled to bring an inner city message in Indianapolis.	鲍勃肯尼迪从印第安纳波利斯带来一个内城消息。
This is the picture. They said, "It's going to be too volatile for you to go."	这就是那张图。他们说， "它将会变的太动荡不定，你不能去。"
He insisted, "I must go."	他坚持"我必须去。"
So, sitting on a flatbed truck, the elders of the community are there, and Bobby stands up and says to the people, "I have bad news for you.	所以，坐在卡车上， 社区里的老者， 然后鲍勃站起来告诉人们， "我有一个坏消息告诉你们。
Some of you may not have heard that Dr. King has been assassinated.	有些人也许还没听说当马丁路德.金博士被暗杀了，
I know that you are angry, and I know that you would almost wish to have the opportunity to enter now into activities of revenge. But," he said, "what I really want you to know is that I know how you feel.	我理解你们很生气， 并且我理解你们希望现在就有机会 去参与报仇的运动，但是" 他说，"我希望你们知道，我理解你们的感觉。
Because I had someone dear to me snatched away.	因为我的亲人被死神带走了。
I know how you feel."	我理解你们的感受。"
And he said, "I hope that you will have the strength to do what I did.	然后他说，"我希望你们有力量去做我所做的，
I allowed my anger, my bitterness, my grief to simmer a while, and then I made up my mind that I was going to make a different world, and we can do that together."	我允许我的愤怒，辛酸，我的悲伤慢慢燃烧， 然后我立志要去一个崭新的世界， 并且我们可以一起达到。"
That's a picture. Compassion? I think I see it.	这是一个图片。 同情心？我觉得我看到它了。
I saw it when the Dalai Lama came to the Riverside Church while I was a pastor, and he invited representatives of faith traditions from all around the world.	我看到它是在我是牧师的时候达赖喇嘛到河滨教堂 他从全世界邀请了信仰的代表。
He asked them to give a message, and they each read in their own language a central affirmation, and that was some version of the golden rule: "As you would that others would do unto you, do also unto them."	他请他们传递一个信息， 然后他们每个人都用自己的语言去理解， 那是另外版本的黄金法则。 "你如何对待他人，也将如何对待自己， 像对待自己一样对待别人。"
Twelve in their ecclesiastical or cultural or tribal attire affirming one message.	12个身着喇嘛服装或者民族服装的人 重申着同一个信息。
We are so connected that we must treat each other as if an action toward you is an action toward myself.	我们连接如此紧密，我们必须像所有的行为都 对待自己一样去对待大家。
One more picture while I'm stinking and thinking about the Riverside Church: 9/11. Last night at Chagrin Fall, a newspaperman and a television guy said, "That evening, when a service was held at the Riverside Church, we carried it on our station in this city.	还有一个图片是我正在思考关于河滨教堂的时候。 9/11。 昨晚正懊恼的时候， 一个报摊小贩和一个电视男的对话， 那天晚上，当公共的服务在河滨教堂上的时候， 我们继续在我们城市里的车站。
It was," he said, "one of the most powerful moments of life together.	"那是"他说，"历史上生命连接最为紧密的时刻之一。"
We were all suffering.	我们都在经受苦难，
But you invited representatives of all of the traditions to come, and you invited them.	但你邀请所有传统的代表来参加， 你邀请他们。
'Find out what it is in your tradition that tells us what to do when we have been humiliated, when we have been despised and rejected.' And they all spoke out of their own traditions, a word about the healing power of solidarity, one with the other."	来找出，什么是你的传统 告诉我们当我们被侮辱的时候要去做什么, 当我们被鄙视和拒绝的时候我们要做什么。 然后他们会用他们自己的传统 关于治疗团结一致的力量，一个接一个。
I developed a sense of compassion sort of as second nature, but I became a preacher.	好，现在我发现同情心是一种第二天性， 但我变成了一个讲道士。
Now, as a preacher, I got a job. I got to preach the stuff, but I got to do it too.	现在，作为一个讲道士，我的工作就是布道和说教， 但我就应该做这个。
Or, as Father Divine in Harlem used to say to folks, "Some people preach the Gospel.	或者，就像是哈莱姆神父告诉人们的一样， "一些人说教福音书。
I have to tangibilitate the Gospel."	我必须说出福音书的真实性。"
So, the real issue is: How do you tangibilitate compassion?	所以，真正的问题是： 你怎么说同情心的真实性？
How do you make it real?	你怎么让它变成现实？
My faith has constantly lifted up the ideal, and challenged me when I fell beneath it.	我的信条不断的升华成理想， 并且一旦我落后就不断挑战我。
In my tradition, there is a gift that we have made to other traditions -- to everybody around the world who knows the story of the "Good Samaritan."	在我的传统里，我们要为其它的传统送一个礼物 ， 世界上每一个人都知道善人的故事。
Many people think of it primarily in terms of charity, random acts of kindness.	许多人认为首当其冲的应该是慈善， 随机的善行。
But for those who really study that text a little more thoroughly, you will discover that a question has been raised that leads to this parable.	但对于这些真正研究或者更理解的人来说， 你会发现一个问题慢慢浮现上来， 导致了这个寓意。
The question was: "What is the greatest commandment?"	这个问题是："什么才是最伟大的戒律？"
And, according to Jesus, the word comes forth, "You must love yourself, you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind and soul, and your neighbor as yourself."	根据耶稣，这个词汇出来了， "你必须爱自己， 你必须像爱你自己一样全心全意爱你的主你的上帝， 以及你的邻居。"
And then the person asked, "Well, what do you mean, 'neighbor?'" And he answered it by telling the story of the man who fell among thieves, and how religious authorities went the other way, and how their supporters in the congregation went the other way; but an unsuspecting, despised person came along, saw the man in need, provided oil and wine for his wounds, put him on his own transportation, and took him to the inn and asked the innkeeper, "Take care of him."	然后人们问道，"那么，你是指什么，邻居？" 然后他讲了一个男人落到贼窝的故事来回答这个问题， 以及宗教的掌权者是如何通向另一条路， 还有他们的支持者是如何聚在一起通向另一条路的， 但没有料想到，被歧视的人一起， 看到有需要帮助的人， 提供了油和酒来治疗他的伤口， 把他送上自己的交通工具， 然后送他到旅馆 并且告诉侍应生，"好好照顾他。"
And he said, "Here, this is the initial investment, but if needs continue, make sure that you provide them.	然后说，"这只是刚开始的投入， 如果他还需要帮助，你要确保帮助他
And whatever else is needed, I will provide it and pay for it when I return."	不管他需要什么，等我回来我会把钱给你。"
This always seemed to me to be a deepening of the sense of what it means to be a Good Samaritan.	这对于我来说，有意成为 一个善人的意识在不断加深。
A Good Samaritan is not simply one whose heart is touched in an immediate act of care and charity, but one who provides a system of sustained care -- I like that, 'a system of sustained care ' -- in the inn, take care.	一个大善人不是仅仅简单的容易感动， 仅仅一个直接的关心和慈善， 而是一个提供一系列的可持续的关心 --如我所说的那样 在旅馆里的一个可以持续的关心和照顾。
I think maybe it's one time when the Bible talks about a healthcare system and a commitment to do whatever is necessary -- that all God's children would have their needs cared for, so that we could answer when mommy eternal asks, "In regards to health, are all the children in?" And we could say yes.	我想也许有一次当圣经论及医疗系统 以及承诺要做的必须的事情， 所有的上帝的孩子都需要被照顾， 因此当永恒的妈妈问及，"关于健康， 所有的孩子都在吗？" 然后我们可以回答是的。
Oh, what a joy it has been to be a person seeking to tangibilitate compassion.	一个去证明同情心的真实性的人是多么快乐啊。
I recall that my work as a pastor has always involved caring for their spiritual needs; being concerned for housing, for healthcare, for the prisoners, for the infirm, for children -- even the foster care children for whom no one can even keep a record where they started off, where they are going.	我回想我作为一个牧师的时候 总是牵涉到关注他们的灵魂所需， 关注他们的房子，医疗， 犯人，年迈体弱的老人，儿童， 甚至是收养和照顾那些甚至没有出生记录 和任何资料的儿童。
To be a pastor is to care for these individual needs.	作为一个牧师就是要关心这些个人之所需。
But now, to be a Good Samaritan -- and I always say, and to be a good American -- for me, is not simply to congratulate myself for the individual acts of care.	但是现在，作为一个大善人，我总是说 并且做为一个善良的美国人，对于我来说， 不是简单的恭喜我自己对于个人的关心行为，
Compassion takes on a corporate dynamic.	同情心呈现出一种全体的动态。
I believe that whatever we did around that table at Bloodworth Street must be done around tables and rituals of faith until we become that family, that family together that understands the nature of our unity.	我坚信我们在布拉德大街围绕着饭桌所做的一切， 必须在在饭桌上完成的事情以及信条的仪式 直到我们变成了一个大家庭，在一起的大家庭， 理解我们统一的自然天性。
We are one people together.	我们一起变成了一个人。
So, let me explain to you what I mean when I think about compassion, and why I think it is so important that right at this point in history.	所以，让我来给你解释我对同情心的认识， 并且为什么我认为同情心在历史上的这一时刻那么重要
We would decide to establish this charter of compassion.	我们会决定建立起同情心的新篇章。
The reason it's important is because this is a very special time in history.	它如此重要是因为这是历史的一个非常特殊的时刻。
It is the time that, biblically, we would speak of as the day, or the year, of God's favor.	这个时刻是圣经里我们所说的 上帝恩惠的那一天，或那一年。
This is a season of grace.	这是一个感恩的季节。
Unusual things are beginning to happen.	不寻常的东西已经开始发生。
Please pardon me, as a black man, for celebrating that the election of Obama was an unusual sign of the fact that it is a year of favor.	请允许我再说一遍，作为一个黑人，为了庆祝 奥巴马的当选就是一个不寻常的迹象 今年是上帝恩惠的一年，
And yet, there is so much more that needs to be done.	而且，还有这么多的东西需要被完成。
We need to bring health and food and education and respect for all God's citizens, all God's children, remembering mama eternal.	我们需要带来健康，食物和教育 以及对上帝子民的尊重，所有上帝的孩子们， 记住永恒的妈妈。
Now, let me close my comments by telling you that whenever I feel something very deeply, it usually takes the form of verse.	现在，让我再告诉一件事来结束我的讲话， 无论何时我感触很深的时候， 它通常带着诗歌的形式。
And so I want to close with a little song.	所以我想以一首歌来结尾。
I close with this song -- it's a children's song -- because we are all children at the table of mama eternal.	以这首儿歌来结尾。 我们在永恒的妈妈的餐桌上的时候，我们都是孩子。
And if mama eternal has taught us correctly, this song will make sense, not only to those of us who are a part of this gathering, but to all who sign the charter for compassion.	如果永恒的妈妈教导我们的是正确的话， 这首哥就一定有意义，不只是我们聚会的一部分， 而是整个同情心新篇章的迹象。
And this is why we do it.	这就是我们为什么去做。
The song says, "I made heaven so happy today, Receiving God's love and giving it away When I looked up, heaven smiled at me Now, I'm so happy. Can't you see? I'm happy. Look at me. I'm happy. Can't you see? Sharing makes me happy, makes heaven happy too I'm happy. Look at me. I'm happy. Can't you see? Let me share my happy loving smile with you. That's compassion.	这首哥是今天我使天堂如此开心 我收到了上帝的爱并传递给别人 当我提着看，天堂正朝我微笑 现在我如此开心，你看不到吗？ 我很开心。看看我，我很开心，你看不到吗？ 分享使我开心，也让天堂开心 我很开心， 让我来分享开心可爱的微笑给你 这就是同情之心。
Every year in the United States alone, 2,077,000 couples make a legal and spiritual decision to spend the rest of their lives together ...	每年，仅仅在美国 就有207万7000对情侣 在法律上和精神上决定 与对方共度一生
and not to have sex with anyone else, ever.	而且不搞外遇 绝不
He buys a ring, she buys a dress.	他买好戒指，她购入婚纱
They go shopping for all sorts of things.	他们一起置办 各种东西
She takes him to Arthur Murray for ballroom dancing lessons.	她带他去Arthur Murray舞蹈教室上课 学跳交际舞
And the big day comes.	之后喜事来临
And they'll stand before God and family and some guy her dad once did business with, and they'll vow that nothing, not abject poverty, not life-threatening illness, not complete and utter misery will ever put the tiniest damper on their eternal love and devotion.	他们在主和家人的见证下 还包括她父亲曾经的生意伙伴 他们发誓，无论何事 无论是一贫如洗 还是身患绝症 抑或是遭遇彻头彻尾的苦难 都丝毫不会影响 他们永恒的爱与忠诚
These optimistic young bastards promise to honor and cherish each other through hot flashes and mid-life crises and a cumulative 50-lb. weight gain, until that far-off day when one of them is finally able to rest in peace.	这些乐观年轻的混蛋们 许诺尊重并珍惜彼此 从新婚 到中年危机 到持续增加50磅的体重 直到在遥远未来的某一天 两人中的一个 终于得以安息
You know, because they can't hear the snoring anymore.	因为他们再也听不到对方的鼾声了
And then they'll get stupid drunk and smash cake in each others' faces and do the "Macarena," and we'll be there showering them with towels and toasters and drinking their free booze and throwing birdseed at them every single time -- even though we know, statistically, half of them will be divorced within a decade.	他们会喝的得醉醺醺 向对方掷蛋糕，唱玛卡雷娜二重唱 我们也会在场 一次次举杯庆贺 狂饮免费酒水 向他们扔鸟食 我们一贯如此 即使我们知道 统计表明 一半以上的婚姻维持不到10年
Of course, the other half won't, right?	当然，另一半婚姻尚未终结，对不对？
They'll keep forgetting anniversaries and arguing about where to spend holidays and debating which way the toilet paper should come off of the roll.	他们会一直忘记纪念日 为去哪儿度假而争吵 互相争辩 厕纸 该按什么方向摆
And some of them will even still be enjoying each others' company when neither of them can chew solid food anymore.	他们中的一些人 也会一直享受有对方的陪伴 知道牙齿松动嚼不动固体食物
And researchers want to know why.	研究人员希望知道原因
I mean, look, it doesn't take a double-blind, placebo-controlled study to figure out what makes a marriage not work.	这并不需要一个双盲的对照组研究 来破解婚姻失败的秘密
Disrespect, boredom, too much time on Facebook, having sex with other people.	互不尊重、厌倦 沉迷Facebook 搞外遇
But you can have the exact opposite of all of those things -- respect, excitement, a broken Internet connection, mind-numbing monogamy -- and the thing still can go to hell in a hand basket.	你也可以举出上述所有的反义词 互相尊重、新鲜刺激 断网 麻木的一夫一妻制 但还是搞砸了
So what's going on when it doesn't?	所以维系婚姻的究竟是什么？
What do the folks who make it all the way to side-by-side burial plots have in common?	那些成功携手 生同衾、死同穴的伴侣 有何共通点？
What are they doing right?	他们做对了哪些？
What can we learn from them?	我们能从中学到什么？
And if you're still happily sleeping solo, why should you stop what you're doing and make it your life's work to find that one special person that you can annoy for the rest of your life?	如果你是个快乐的单身贵族 为什么一定要放弃现在的生活 而毕生投入于 找寻那个特别的人 那个你一辈子都觉得很烦的人?
Well researchers spend billions of your tax dollars trying to figure that out.	研究人员花费了几十亿纳税人的钱 来寻找原因
They stalk blissful couples and they study their every move and mannerism.	他们跟踪调查美满的婚姻 他们研究夫妻间的所有行为和特殊习惯
And they try to pinpoint what it is that sets them apart from their miserable neighbors and friends.	他们尝试精确定位 幸福的夫妻不同于 不幸的邻居朋友们的所有不同之处
And it turns out, the success stories share a few similarities, actually, beyond they don't have sex with other people.	结果发现 成功的婚姻 的确有一些相似之处 而不仅仅是不搞外遇
For instance, in the happiest marriages, the wife is thinner and better looking than the husband.	比如说，在幸福的婚姻里 妻子都比丈夫要苗条好看
Obvious, right.	明显正确
It's obvious that this leads to marital bliss because, women, we care a great deal about being thin and good looking, whereas men mostly care about sex ...	很明显这一点是婚姻幸福的原因 因为女人都很看重 身材和美貌 男人大多在乎性
ideally with women who are thinner and better looking than they are.	最好是跟 比他们苗条好看的女人
The beauty of this research though is that no one is suggesting that women have to be thin to be happy; we just have to be thinner than our partners.	这项研究的妙处在于 没有人在暗示说 女人要瘦才会快乐 只要比伴侣瘦一点儿就行
So instead of all that laborious dieting and exercising, we just need to wait for them to get fat, maybe bake a few pies.	这样就不用艰苦锻炼 勉强节食 我们只要等着自己的男人发福就好 也许再多烤几个派
This is good information to have, and it's not that complicated.	这是很好的消息 也不复杂
Research also suggests that the happiest couples are the ones that focus on the positives.	研究也显示 幸福的夫妻 聚焦于事物的积极一面
For example, the happy wife.	比如说，一个幸福的妻子
Instead of pointing out her husband's growing gut or suggesting he go for a run, she might say, "Wow, honey, thank you for going out of your way to make me relatively thinner."	不会指责丈夫腰围渐粗 也不会建议他出去跑步 她很可能会说 "宝贝，谢谢你已经开始努力 让我相对更苗条。"
These are couples who can find good in any situation.	这些夫妻能够在任何情况下都找到好的一面
"Yeah, it was devastating when we lost everything in that fire, but it's kind of nice sleeping out here under the stars, and it's a good thing you've got all that body fat to keep us warm."	"这可真是太惨了 我们在火灾中失去了一切 不过在满天星斗下熟睡也是一桩美事 而且你刚好还有足够的脂肪 让我们保暖。"
One of my favorite studies found that the more willing a husband is to do house work, the more attractive his wife will find him.	我尤其喜欢的一项研究发现 丈夫越愿意做家务 妻子就觉得他越迷人
Because we needed a study to tell us this.	因为我们着实需要有项研究来告诉我们这个结论
But here's what's going on here.	然后我们有以下推理
The more attractive she finds him, the more sex they have; the more sex they have, the nicer he is to her; the nicer he is to her, the less she nags him about leaving wet towels on the bed -- and ultimately, they live happily ever after.	妻子越觉得丈夫有吸引力，就会有越多性爱 他们有越多性爱，丈夫就对妻子越好 丈夫对妻子越好 妻子就越少唠叨丈夫把湿毛巾扔在床上 最终，他们一直幸福地生活在一起
In other words, men, you might want to pick it up a notch in the domestic department.	换句话说，男人们也许应该 在家里多干点活儿了
Here's an interesting one.	另一项有趣的研究
One study found that people who smile in childhood photographs are less likely to get a divorce.	发现 在童年时期的照片里笑着的人 离婚率较低
This is an actual study, and let me clarify.	这是一项真实的研究 让我解释一下
The researchers were not looking at documented self-reports of childhood happiness or even studying old journals.	研究人员并不是 看文字记录的童年幸福记录 或者从前的日记之类
The data were based entirely on whether people looked happy in these early pictures.	数据全部来源于 人们是不是看上去高兴 显示在这些早年的照片中
Now I don't know how old all of you are, but when I was a kid, your parents took pictures with a special kind of camera that held something called film, and, by God, film was expensive.	我不清楚在座各位的年龄 但当我还是小孩儿时 家长拍照用的是一种特殊的相机 里面装着一种叫胶卷的东西 天哪，胶卷这玩意儿真是贵
They didn't take 300 shots of you in that rapid-fire digital video mode and then pick out the nicest, smileyest one for the Christmas card.	他们可不是拍上300张 用那种数码录像的帧数速度 然后再挑上一张最漂亮的，笑得最好的照片 放在圣诞卡上
Oh no.	哦不是的
They dressed you up, they lined you up, and you smiled for the fucking camera like they told you to or you could kiss your birthday party goodbye.	他们把你打扮好，排上队 然后叫你冲着相机笑 要不然生日派对直接结束
But still, I have a huge pile of fake happy childhood pictures and I'm glad they make me less likely than some people to get a divorce.	即使这样，我也有一大堆 假装幸福的童年照片 我很庆幸这些照片让我看起来 不那么容易离婚
So what else can you do to safeguard your marriage?	你还能做什么 来守卫你的婚姻？
Do not win an Oscar for best actress.	不要去赢奥斯卡影后
I'm serious.	我是认真的
Bettie Davis, Joan Crawford, Hallie Berry, Hillary Swank, Sandra Bullock, Reese Witherspoon, all of them single soon after taking home that statue.	贝蒂.戴维斯、琼.克劳馥、哈利.贝瑞、希拉里.斯旺克、 桑德拉.布洛克、瑞茜.威瑟斯彭、 她们所有人 在把小金人带回家后不久都成了单身
They actually call it the Oscar curse.	真的有种说法叫"奥斯卡诅咒"
It is the marriage kiss of death and something that should be avoided.	这是婚姻的死亡之吻 应该极力避免
And it's not just successfully starring in films that's dangerous.	在电影里成功饰演角色 不是唯一危险的
It turns out, merely watching a romantic comedy causes relationship satisfaction to plummet.	研究发现，只是看一部浪漫喜剧 就能导致婚姻关系满意度直线下降
Apparently, the bitter realization that maybe it could happen to us, but it obviously hasn't and it probably never will, makes our lives seem unbearably grim in comparison.	很明显，苦涩地意识到 片中故事有可能是真的 但尚未也很可能永远不会发生在自己身上 这种认识更加突显了人生不能承受之殇 人比人，气死人
And theoretically, I suppose if we opt for a film where someone gets brutally murdered or dies in a fiery car crash, we are more likely to walk out of that theater feeling like we've got it pretty good.	理论上说 假设我们选择看一部电影，角色被残忍的杀害 或者死于惨烈的交通事故 我们走出电影院时 感觉可能还相当好
Drinking alcohol, it seems, is bad for your marriage.	饮酒似乎是 对婚姻不利的
Yeah.	是的
I can't tell you anymore about that one because I stopped reading it at the headline.	我没什么可告诉你们的 因为我读到标题就不读了
But here's a scary one: Divorce is contagious.	这还有一条可怕的 离婚会传染
That's right -- when you have a close couple friend split up, it increases your chances of getting a divorce by 75 percent.	没错 如果你的好朋友分手了 你自己离婚的可能性 会增加75%
Now I have to say, I don't get this one at all.	这条一点儿也不适用于我自己
My husband and I have watched quite a few friends divide their assets and then struggle with being our age and single in an age of sexting and Viagra and eHarmony.	我丈夫和我 目睹了一些朋友分家产 挣扎着生活 在我们这个年龄独身 在这个充斥色情短信和伟哥的时代 还有相亲网站
And I'm thinking they've done more for my marriage than a lifetime of therapy ever could.	我却觉得这些朋友对于我自己婚姻的帮助 比终身治疗的帮助还要大
So now you may be wondering, why does anyone get married ever?	你们可能会问 人们为什么要结婚？
Well the U.S. federal government counts more than a thousand legal benefits to being someone's spouse -- a list that includes visitation rights in jail, but hopefully you'll never need that one.	美国联邦政府 列举出上千条法律上的 结成配偶的好处 包括监狱探视权 但愿大家永远别用到这一条
But beyond the profound federal perks, married people make more money.	除了各种各样的政策福利 已婚人士收入更高
We're healthier, physically and emotionally.	更健康 无论是肉体上还是精神上
We produce happier, more stable and more successful kids.	生养更快乐、情绪更稳定 更成功的下一代
We have more sex than our supposedly swinging single friends -- believe it or not.	已婚人士有更多性爱 比起他们看似放纵的单身朋友 信不信由你
We even live longer, which is a pretty compelling argument for marrying someone you like a lot in the first place.	已婚人士更长寿 这是个很有力的理由 用来结婚 但前提是你要非常喜欢你的对象
Now if you're not currently experiencing the joy of the joint tax return, I can't tell you how to find a chore-loving person of the approximately ideal size and attractiveness who prefers horror movies and doesn't have a lot of friends hovering on the brink of divorce, but I can only encourage you to try, because the benefits, as I've pointed out, are significant.	如果你目前没有享受到 联合纳税申报的喜悦 我无法告诉你如何找到一个热爱家务的人 有着近乎理想的身材和吸引力 爱看恐怖电影 又没有太多身处离婚危险的朋友 我只能鼓励你去积极尝试 因为就如我刚刚指出的 结婚好处多多
The bottom line is, whether you're in it or you're searching for it, I believe marriage is an institution worth pursuing and protecting.	关键在于，无论你已婚还是在寻找姻缘 我相信婚姻制度 都是值得施行和维护的
So I hope you'll use the information I've given you today to weigh your personal strengths against your own risk factors.	希望大家能用上今天我提供的信息 来扬长避短 来扬长避短
For instance, in my marriage, I'd say I'm doing okay.	譬如我自己 我的婚姻还不错
One the one hand, I have a husband who's annoyingly lean and incredibly handsome.	但是 我丈夫苗条地让人羡慕嫉妒恨 还无可救药的帅
So I'm obviously going to need fatten him up.	显然我要赶紧让他发福
And like I said, we have those divorced friends who may secretly or subconsciously be trying to break us up.	我也说过，我们有那些离了婚的朋友 心怀不轨或是无意识地 要拆散我们
So we have to keep an eye on that.	我们得小心了
And we do like a cocktail or two.	我们也喜欢来一两杯
On the other hand, I have the fake happy picture thing.	不过 我有那些假装高兴的照片
And also, my husband does a lot around the house, and would happily never see another romantic comedy as long as he lives.	而我丈夫做很多家务 也绝对乐意 永远不看爱情喜剧
So I've got all those things going for me.	所以形势于我还是有利的
But just in case, I plan to work extra hard to not win an Oscar anytime soon.	不过要以防万一 我要加倍努力 绝对不要拿到小金人
And for the good of your relationships, I would encourage you to do the same.	为了你们自己的婚姻 我鼓励你们也这样做
I'll see you at the bar.	我们酒吧见
	（鼓掌）
I have to say that I'm very glad to be here.	非常高兴能来到这里。
I understand we have over 80 countries here, so that's a whole new paradigm for me to speak to all of these countries.	我知道大家来自于80多个国家， 在来自于这么多国家的人面前发言， 对我来说是一种全新的体验。
In each country, I'm sure you have this thing called the parent-teacher conference.	我相信，在每个国家， 都有一种叫家长会的东西。
Do you know about the parent-teacher conference?	你们知道什么是家长会吗？
Not the ones for your kids, but the one you had as a child, where your parents come to school and your teacher talks to your parents, and it's a little bit awkward.	不是作为一个家长，而是当你还是个孩子的时候， 你的父母来到学校， 然后，老师会跟他们进行些有点儿奇怪的谈话。
Well, I remember in third grade, I had this moment where my father, who never takes off from work, he's a classical blue collar, a working-class immigrant person, going to school to see his son, how he's doing, and the teacher said to him, he said, "You know, John is good at math and art."	我记得在我小学三年级的时候， 我的父亲，一个从来不请假休息的人， 一个典型的蓝领，移民工薪阶层， 去学校看他儿子表现得怎么样， 我的老师告诉他，"你知道吗， John擅长数学和艺术"。
And he kind of nodded, you know?	他稍稍地点了点头。
The next day I saw him talking to a customer at our tofu store, and he said, "You know, John's good at math."	第二天，我看到他在跟我们家豆腐店的客人聊天， 他说，"你知道吗，John的数学很好。"
And that always stuck with me all my life.	这个事情一直都让我困惑不解。
Why didn't Dad say art? Why wasn't it okay?	我爸爸为什么不提艺术？为什么擅长艺术就不好？
Why? It became a question my entire life, and that's all right, because being good at math meant he bought me a computer, and some of you remember this computer, this was my first computer.	为什么呢？它成为了一个我一辈子都在寻找答案的问题， 这也没什么的，因为擅长数学， 他给我买了一台计算机，有些人可能记得这台计算机， 这是我的第一台计算机。
Who had an Apple II? Apple II users, very cool.	你们谁有过Apple II？用Apple II 的人很酷。
As you remember, the Apple II did nothing at all.	就跟你记得的一样，Apple II 什么也做不了。
You'd plug it in, you'd type in it and green text would come out.	你插上电，开始打字，然后绿色文本就会出来。
It would say you're wrong most of the time.	大多数情况下它都会说命令错误。
That was the computer we knew.	这就是我们以前所接触的计算机。
That computer is a computer that I learned about going to MIT, my father's dream. And at MIT, however, I learned about the computer at all levels, and after, I went to art school to get away from computers, and I began to think about the computer as more of a spiritual space of thinking.	正是因为这台计算机，我进入了麻省理工学习， 这是父亲的梦想。 在麻省理工，我学习了各个层次的计算机知识， 但在那之后，我却去了艺术学校，以此来逃离计算机， 我开始更多地将计算机看做是 思考的精神空间。
And I was influenced by performance art -- so this is 20 years ago. I made a computer out of people.	我深受表演艺术的影响， 于是20 年前，我做了一台由人模拟的计算机。
It was called the Human Powered Computer Experiment.	我将其命名为人类动力计算机实验。
I have a power manager, mouse driver, memory, etc., and I built this in Kyoto, the old capital of Japan.	我有电源管理人、 鼠标驱动人员、 内存等， 我是在日本的旧首都京都做的这个实验。
It's a room broken in two halves.	那是一个被分成两半的房间。
I've turned the computer on, and these assistants are placing a giant floppy disk built out of cardboard, and it's put into the computer.	我开启计算机后， 助理们把一个用纸板做的巨型软盘 放入计算机。
And the floppy disk drive person wears it.	然后那个充当软盘驱动器的人就戴着这个软盘。
She finds the first sector on the disk, and takes data off the disk and passes it off to, of course, the bus.	她访问磁盘上的第一个扇区, 提取数据，然后传递给电脑的主线。
So the bus diligently carries the data into the computer to the memory, to the CPU, the VRAM, etc., and it's an actual working computer. That's a bus, really.	主线会敬业地把数据输入到计算机， 到内存，到CPU，再到VRAM等。 这是一个能运行的计算机，一个传输数据的线路集合，真的。
And it looks kind of fast. That's a mouse driver, where it's XY.	它看起来很快。那是鼠标驱动人员 写着XY。
It looks like it's happening kind of quickly, but it's actually a very slow computer, and when I realized how slow this computer was compared to how fast a computer is, it made me wonder about computers and technology in general.	它看起来似乎运行很快，但实际上， 这是一个运行非常慢的计算机， 当我意识到跟正常的计算机相比，它有多慢时， 我对计算机和科技从总体上有了新的思考。
And so I'm going to talk today about four things, really.	所以，我今天真正要谈论的有四件事。
The first three things are about how I've been curious about technology, design and art, and how they intersect, how they overlap, and also a topic that I've taken on since four years ago I became the President of Rhode Island School of Design: leadership.	前三件事是关于我是如何一直以来 对科技、设计和艺术都充满了好奇的， 以及这三者是如何重叠、相互影响的。另一个主题 是我成为罗德岛设计学校校长这四年以来 一直在思考的问题：领导力。
And I'll talk about how I've looked to combine these four areas into a kind of a synthesis, a kind of experiment.	我会讲一下我是如何尝试着 把这四个领域结合到一起实现同步并进行试验的。
So starting from technology, technology is a wonderful thing.	从科技开始说， 科技是很美好的事物。
When that Apple II came out, it really could do nothing.	当那个Apple II 问世时，它真的什么都做不了。
It could show text and after we waited a bit, we had these things called images.	它可以显示文本， 一段时间后，它开始显示图像。
Remember when images were first possible with a computer, those gorgeous, full-color images?	还记得当计算机第一次显示图像， 显示那些华丽、 全彩图像的时候吗？
And then after a few years, we got CD-quality sound.	几年后，CD 音质问世了。
It was incredible. You could listen to sound on the computer.	你可以在计算机上听到声音了，这令人难以置信。
And then movies, via CD-ROM. It was amazing.	然后是 CD-ROM的电影，多么了不起！
Remember that excitement?	还记得当时那种兴奋的感觉吗？
And then the browser appeared. The browser was great, but the browser was very primitive, very narrow bandwidth.	然后浏览器出现了，最初的浏览器不错， 但是非常初级，只能执行很简单的任务。
Text first, then images, we waited, CD-quality sound over the Net, then movies over the Internet. Kind of incredible.	首先是文本，然后有了图像， 一段时间的等待之后，又有了通过网络播放的 CD音质， 然后是出现在互联网上的电影，有点儿难以置信。
And then the mobile phone occurred, text, images, audio, video. And now we have iPhone, iPad, Android, with text, video, audio, etc.	然后，手机诞生了， 文本、 图像、 音频、 视频。 现在我们有了能播放文本、 视频、 音频等内容的 iPhone，iPad，Android。
You see this little pattern here?	你发现这其中微妙的规律了吗？
We're kind of stuck in a loop, perhaps, and this sense of possibility from computing is something I've been questioning for the last 10 or so years, and have looked to design, as we understand most things, and to understand design with our technology has been a passion of mine.	我们看起来像是被困在了这个循环之中， 这种由计算机带来的种种可能性 是我过去10多年以来一直在质疑的。 因为我通过设计来理解大多数事情，所以我们也研究了设计， 通过科技来领会设计也成为了我的一个爱好。
And I have a small experiment to give you a quick design lesson.	我这里有一个小实验来让你快速了解设计。
Designers talk about the relationship between form and content, content and form. Now what does that mean?	设计师注重于形式与内容， 内容与形式之间的关系。这是什么意思呢？
Well, content is the word up there: fear.	内容是屏幕上的字： 恐惧。
It's a four-letter word. It's a kind of a bad feeling word, fear.	一个由四个字母组成的词，是一个描述一种不好的感觉的词。
Fear is set in Light Helvetica, so it's not too stressful, and if you set it in Ultra Light Helvetica, it's like, "Oh, fear, who cares?" Right?	这个词用浅色Helvetica字体显示， 所以我们并没感到很有压力， 如果设置成非常浅的Helvetica字体， 感觉就像，"哦，恐惧，有什么大不了的呢？ " 对吧？
You take the same Ultra Light Helvetica and make it big, and like, whoa, that hurts. Fear.	我们还是用同样浅色的Helvetica字体，但把它放大， 就像，天哪，真吓人！恐惧！
So you can see how you change the scale, you change the form. Content is the same, but you feel differently.	刚才，我们通过改变字体大小，改变了形式。 尽管内容是相同的，但你的感觉却不一样。
You change the typeface to, like, this typeface, and it's kind of funny. It's like pirate typeface, like Captain Jack Sparrow typeface. Arr! Fear!	你把字体改成这样的， 这个比较搞笑，有点儿像海盗字体， 像杰克船长字体：啊！恐惧 ！
Like, aww, that's not fearful. That's actually funny.	这一点也不吓人，实际上还很好笑。
Or fear like this, kind of a nightclub typeface.	而这种字体，感觉像夜店。
Like, we gotta go to Fear.	让你觉得我们必须得去""恐惧"喝一杯。
It's, like, amazing, right?	很神奇，对吗？
It just changes the same content.	相同的内容，感觉却不一样。
Or you make it -- The letters are separated apart, they're huddled together like on the deck of the Titanic, and you feel sorry for the letters, like, I feel the fear.	或者像这样，字母本来是分开的， 但把他们挤在一起， 像是在泰坦尼克号的甲板上， 你就会为这些字母感到难过，似乎是"我感到惧怕"。
You feel for them.	你可以感受到他们。
Or you change the typeface to something like this.	或者，你还可以把字体改为这样。
It's very classy. It's like that expensive restaurant, Fear.	它非常优雅，就像一家昂贵的叫做"恐惧"餐馆。
I can never get in there.	我永远都进不去。
It's just amazing, Fear. But that's form, content.	恐惧，真是了不起。但这就是形式与内容。
If you just change one letter in that content, you get a much better word, much better content: free.	如果你只改变其中的一个字母， 你会得到一个好得多的词：自由。
"Free" is a great word. You can serve it almost any way.	"自由"是一个很好的词，你可以用任何的方式感受它。
Free bold feels like Mandela free.	加粗之后，感觉像曼德拉被释放而自由了。
It's like, yes, I can be free.	就像"耶，我自由了"。
Free even light feels kind of like, ah, I can breathe in free.	变浅之后，感觉就像，啊！我可以自由呼吸了。
It feels great. Or even free spread out, it's like, ah, I can breathe in free, so easily.	那感觉真棒。或者把这些字母分开， 这就像，我可以轻松自由地呼吸。
And I can add in a blue gradient and a dove, and I have, like, Don Draper free.	我可以添加蓝色渐变和一只鸽子， 感觉就像Don Draper那样的自由。
So you see that -- form, content, design, it works that way.	所以形式、 内容和设计就是这样运作的。
It's a powerful thing. It's like magic, almost, like the magicians we've seen at TED. It's magic.	这很强大，跟魔术差不多， 就像我们在 TED看到的魔术师一样。
Design does that.	设计跟魔法一样，
And I've been curious about how design and technology intersect, and I'm going to show you some old work I never really show anymore, to give you a sense of what I used to do.	我一直以来都对设计和科技 是如何相互融合的十分感兴趣， 我将展示一些我以前从来没有展示过的作品， 让你们了解我所做的事情。
So -- yeah.	--
So I made a lot of work in the '90s.	我在90 年代有很多作品。
This was a square that responds to sound.	这是一个对声音有反应的方块。
People ask me why I made that. It's not clear.	人们问我，为什么做这个东西，我也不知道。
But I thought it'd be neat for the square to respond to me, and my kids were small then, and my kids would play with these things, like, "Aaah," you know, they would say, "Daddy, aaah, aaah." You know, like that.	但是我认为，这个方块能对我做出反应， 感觉很不错，那时候我的孩子们还很小， 他们会玩这些东西， 他们会对着方块喊，"啊！爸爸，啊，啊。"
We'd go to a computer store, and they'd do the same thing.	我们去买电脑的地方时，他们也会这样。
And they'd say, "Daddy, why doesn't the computer respond to sound?"	然后他们会问，"爸爸，为什么这些电脑没有回应呢？"
And it was really at the time I was wondering why doesn't the computer respond to sound?	正是从那时候起，我便开始想， 为什么计算机对声音没有反应呢？
So I made this as a kind of an experiment at the time.	所以我当时就做了一些这种类型的实验。
And then I spent a lot of time in the space of interactive graphics and things like this, and I stopped doing it because my students at MIT got so much better than myself, so I had to hang up my mouse.	我也花了很多时间 研究交互式图形以及相关的东西，但后来我停下来了， 因为我在麻省的学生比我强多了， 所以我不得不"金盆洗手"。
But in '96, I made my last piece. It was in black and white, monochrome, fully monochrome, all in integer mathematics.	但在 96年，我制作了我最后一件作品：它是黑白的， 单色，完全单色，完全基于整数数学。
It's called "Tap, Type, Write."	我将其命名为"点，打，写。"
It's paying a tribute to the wonderful typewriter that my mother used to type on all the time as a legal secretary.	我以此来向老式打字机致敬， 我母亲是位法律秘书，她曾经就在那样的打字机上打字。
It has 10 variations.	它有 10 种变化。
There's a shift.	这是shift。
Ten variations. This is, like, spin the letter around.	十种变化，这种是左右转动字母。
This is, like, a ring of letters.	这像是一个由字母组成的戒指。
This is 20 years old, so it's kind of a -- Let's see, this is — I love the French film "The Red Balloon."	这台打字机有20多年的历史了，所以它有点儿 — — 看，这是 — — 我喜欢法国电影《红气球》。
Great movie, right? I love that movie. So, this is sort of like a play on that.	很棒的电影，对吧？我非常喜欢那部电影。 所以，这就像那部电影的延伸。
It's peaceful, like that.	很平静，就像这样。
I'll show this last one. This is about balance, you know.	最后一种作品，是有关平衡的。
It's kind of stressful typing out, so if you type on this keyboard, you can, like, balance it out.	这种打字方法让人有点抓狂，所以如果你 在这个键盘上打字，你可以让它平衡起来。
If you hit G, life's okay, so I always say, "Hit G, and it's going to be all right.	如果你按G，什么事儿也没有，所以我总是说， "按G， 一切都会好的。"
Thank you.	谢谢。
Thank you.	谢谢。
So that was 20 years ago, and I was always on the periphery of art.	这是在 20 年前。 我一直是在艺术的边缘。
By being President of RISD I've gone deep into art, and art is a wonderful thing, fine art, pure art.	在担任了罗德岛艺术学院的校长之后， 我更加深入地了解了艺术， 艺术是非常美妙的，精美艺术，纯艺术。
You know, when people say, "I don't get art.	当有人说"我不懂艺术，我一点儿也不明白"时，
I don't get it at all." That means art is working, you know?	那就意味着艺术影响到你了，知道吗？
It's like, art is supposed to be enigmatic, so when you say, like, "I don't get it," like, oh, that's great.	艺术就应该是神秘的，所以当你说"我不明白" 的时候， 其实是在说"哦，太棒了。"
Art does that, because art is about asking questions, questions that may not be answerable.	这就是艺术的力量，艺术是在提问题， 提那些可能无法解答的问题。
At RISD, we have this amazing facility called the Edna Lawrence Nature Lab. It has 80,000 samples of animal, bone, mineral, plants.	在罗德岛设计学院，我们有一个十分出色的实验室 叫埃德娜 · 劳伦斯自然实验室，在那里我们有 80,000 种动物、 骨头、 矿物质和植物的样本。
You know, in Rhode Island, if an animal gets hit on the road, they call us up and we pick it up and stuff it.	在罗德岛，如果一个动物被撞死了， 就会有人打电话过来，我们会把尸体运过来，填充成标本。
And why do we have this facility?	我们为什么要有这样的实验室？
Because at RISD, you have to look at the actual animal, the object, to understand its volume, to perceive it.	因为在罗德岛设计学院，你需要看到真实的动物， 来感知他的大小，并了解它们。
At RISD, you're not allowed to draw from an image.	在罗德岛设计学院，我们是不允许根据图像来画图的。
And many people ask me, John, couldn't you just digitize all this? Make it all digital? Wouldn't it be better?	很多人问我，John，你就不能把这些实物数字化？ 把所有东西都变成电子版，这不是更好吗？
And I often say, well, there's something good to how things used to be done. There's something very different about it, something we should figure out what is good about how we did it, even in this new era.	我常说，我们以前做事的方法是有可取之处的。 而且与众不同， 即使是在新时代， 我们仍然要弄清楚它们好在哪里。
And I have a good friend, he's a new media artist named Tota Hasegawa. He's based in London, no, actually it's in Tokyo, but when he was based in London, he had a game with his wife. He would go to antique shops, and the game was as such: When we look at an antique we want, we'll ask the shopkeeper for the story behind the antique, and if it's a good story, we'll buy it.	我有一个好朋友，是一位新媒体艺术家 叫做长谷川值，他住在伦敦，不，实际上是在东京， 但是当他住在伦敦时，他和他的妻子经常 玩一个游戏，他们会去古董店， 这个游戏是这样的： 当他们看见一件想要的古董的时候， 会问问老板这件古董背后的故事， 如果是一个很好的故事，他们才会买这件古董。
So they'd go to an antique shop, and they'd look at this cup, and they'd say, "Tell us about this cup."	所以当他们去古董店时，他们会看着这个杯子， 然后问："跟我们讲讲这个杯子。"
And the shopkeeper would say, "It's old."	老板会说："它是旧的。"
"Tell us more." "Oh, it's really old."	"还有呢。" "哦，它非常旧。"
And he saw, over and over, the antique's value was all about it being old.	他反反复复地了解到， 古董的价值便在于它是旧的。
And as a new media artist, he reflected, and said, you know, I've spent my whole career making new media art.	作为一名新媒体艺术家，他感叹道， 我用整个职业生涯来创造新媒体艺术。
People say, "Wow, your art, what is it?" It's new media.	人们却会说，"哇，这是什么艺术？" "这是新媒体。"
And he realized, it isn't about old or new.	他意识到，新媒体无关乎旧或新。
It's about something in between.	它介于这两者之间。
It isn't about "old," the dirt, "new," the cloud. It's about what is good.	它不是关于"旧"的泥土，或是"新"的云。 它要寻找什么是好的。
A combination of the cloud and the dirt is where the action is at.	云和泥土的组合才是新媒体。
You see it in all interesting art today, in all interesting businesses today. How we combine those two together to make good is very interesting.	你会在所有有趣的艺术中， 以及所有令人感兴趣的商业中，看到这种组合。 如何将这两者结合产生好的东西，是非常有意思的。
So art makes questions, and leadership is something that is asking a lot of questions.	所以艺术创造问题， 领导力则意味着提出很多问题。
We aren't functioning so easily anymore.	社会不像以前那样单一了。
We aren't a simple authoritarian regime anymore.	现在再也不是简单的独裁政权。
As an example of authoritarianism, I was in Russia one time traveling in St. Petersburg, at a national monument, and I saw this sign that says, "Do Not Walk On The Grass," and I thought, oh, I mean, I speak English, and you're trying to single me out. That's not fair.	举个独裁主义的例子， 我曾经去俄罗斯圣彼得堡的一个国家纪念碑旅游， 我看见一个标志，上面写着，"请勿践踏草坪" 我想，我是说英语的人， 用英语写标语就像是刻意对我说的，这不公平。
But I found a sign for Russian-speaking people, and it was the best sign ever to say no.	但我发现一个给说俄语的人的标志， 这是有史以来最好的禁止标志。
It was like, "No swimming, no hiking, no anything."	"禁止游泳，禁止远足，禁止任何事情。"
My favorite ones are "no plants." Why would you bring a plant to a national monument? I'm not sure.	我最喜欢的一个是"禁止携带植物。 " 为什么会有人带植物到国家纪念碑？我不太明白。
And also "no love."	还有"禁止谈情说爱"。
So that is authoritarianism.	这就是独裁主义。
And what is that, structurally?	从结构上而言，独裁主义是什么？
It's a hierarchy. We all know that a hierarchy is how we run many systems today, but as we know, it's been disrupted.	它是一个等级制度。大家都知道， 如今我们都在用等级制度运做很多东西， 但它已经被打破了。
It is now a network instead of a perfect tree.	现在它是一个网结构，而不是一个完美的树结构。
It's a heterarchy instead of a hierarchy. And that's kind of awkward.	它是一个分层结构，而不是等级结构，这有一点奇怪。
And so today, leaders are faced with how to lead differently, I believe.	因此，我认为如今的领导者们面临着 如何以不同的方式来带领团队。
This is work I did with my colleague Becky Bermont on creative leadership. What can we learn from artists and designers for how to lead?	我与我的同事Becky Bermont 研究了创意领导学。 我们从艺术家和设计师那里能学到哪些关于领导力的事情？
Because in many senses, a regular leader loves to avoid mistakes.	许多的情况下，一般的领导都希望避免错误，
Someone who's creative actually loves to learn from mistakes.	而有创意的人其实喜欢从错误中学习。
A traditional leader is always wanting to be right, whereas a creative leader hopes to be right.	传统的领导者总是想要正确， 而创意领导者则只是希望能正确。
And this frame is important today, in this complex, ambiguous space, and artists and designers have a lot to teach us, I believe.	这个框架如今很重要，在现在这个复杂，捉摸不透的世界， 我相信艺术家和设计师们可以教我们很多事情。
And I had a show in London recently where my friends invited me to come to London for four days to sit in a sandbox, and I said great.	最近我在伦敦有一个展览， 我的朋友邀请我在伦敦呆四天， 就坐在沙坑里，我欣然答应了。
And so I sat in a sandbox for four days straight, six hours every day, six-minute appointments with anyone in London, and that was really bad.	于是那四天我一直坐在沙坑里， 每天六个小时，在伦敦的任何人都可以和我面对面六分钟， 那可真是杯具。
But I would listen to people, hear their issues, draw in the sand, try to figure things out, and it was kind of hard to figure out what I was doing.	但是，我可以听见人们聊他们的问题， 在沙上画画，试图解决问题， 很难弄清楚我在做什么。
You know? It's all these one-on-one meetings for like four days.	这样一对一的会议，持续了四天。
And it felt kind of like being president, actually.	感觉就像当总统一样，真的。
I was like, "Oh, this my job. President. I do a lot of meetings, you know?"	就像"哦，这是我的工作。我是总统，我有很多会议。"
And by the end of the experience, I realized why I was doing this.	到最后， 我意识到我做这件事的原因。
It's because leaders, what we do is we connect improbable connections and hope something will happen, and in that room I found so many connections between people across all of London, and so leadership, connecting people, is the great question today.	这是因为作为领导者， 我们要做的就是建立原本不可能的联系， 并且希望一些事情会发生， 而在那个房间里， 我发现了很多伦敦人之间的联系， 所以用领导力来连接不同的人，是如今的大问题。
Whether you're in the hierarchy or the heterarchy, it's a wonderful design challenge.	无论你是在等级制度下，还是在分层结构中， 这都一个很棒的设计挑战。
And one thing I've been doing is doing some research on systems that can combine technology and leadership with an art and design perspective.	我一直在研究一种系统， 一种透过艺术与设计的视角， 来结合技术与领导力的系统。
Let me show you something I haven't shown anywhere, actually.	让我向你展示一些我从没展示过的东西。
So what this is, is a kind of a sketch, an application sketch I wrote in Python. You know how there's Photoshop?	这是一个草图， 是我在Python 中写的应用，大家知道Photoshop吧？
This is called Powershop, and the way it works is imagine an organization. You know, the CEO isn't ever at the top. The CEO's at the center of the organization.	这个叫Powershop，而它运作的方式是这样的， 你可以想象一个组织， 在这个组织中，CEO任何时候都不是在最高层。 CEO 总是在这个组织的中心。
There may be different subdivisions in the organization, and you might want to look into different areas. For instance, green are areas doing well, red are areas doing poorly.	组织中也许还有更小的分支机构， 你可能想要了解不同的领域。 例如，绿色代表做得好的领域，红色代表表现不佳的领域。
You know, how do you, as the leader, scan, connect, make things happen? So for instance, you might open up a distribution here and find the different subdivisions in there, and know that you know someone in Eco, over here, and these people here are in Eco, the people you might engage with as CEO, people going across the hierarchy.	作为领导者，你如何浏览数据，建立联系， 让事情变得可能？ 例如，你可以点开这个分支，再找到其中不同的分支， 你认识在生态部门的某个人，在这里， 然后 这些在生态部门的人， 可能是你作为 CEO或者管理者想要加强联系的人，
And part of the challenge of the CEO is to find connections across areas, and so you might look in R&amp;D, and here you see one person who crosses the two areas of interest, and it's a person important to engage.	对于CEO而言， 要找到跨越领域的联系是一件很具有挑战性的事。 你可能关注研发部， 在这里，你看到一个跨越两个领域的人。 那么这个人就是一个非常重要的人。
So you might want to, for instance, get a heads-up display on how you're interacting with them.	因此，你可能想要仔细地看看 你是如何与他们互动的。
How many coffees do you have?	你跟他们喝了多少杯咖啡？
How often are you calling them, emailing them?	你多久给他们打一次电话，发一封邮件？
What is the tenor of their email? How is it working out?	他们邮件的主题是什么？进展得怎么样？
Leaders might be able to use these systems to better regulate how they work inside the heterarchy.	领导者也许能用这些系统来 更好地规范被领导者在分层体系中的工作。
You can also imagine using technology like from Luminoso, the guys from Cambridge who were looking at deep text analysis. What is the tenor of your communications?	你还可以使用类似于Luminoso的技术， 像那些来自剑桥的人一样做深度文本分析。 你沟通的要旨是什么？
So these kind of systems, I believe, are important.	我认为，这种类型的系统是很重要的。
They're targeted social media systems around leaders.	它们关注于领导人的社交圈。
And I believe that this kind of perspective will only begin to grow as more leaders enter the space of art and design, because art and design lets you think like this, find different systems like this, and I've just begun thinking like this, so I'm glad to share that with you.	我相信这种观点的壮大， 需要更多的领导人介入艺术和设计领域， 因为艺术和设计让你像这样思考， 找到像这样的不同的系统， 而我才刚开始像这样思考， 很高兴能与你们分享。
So in closing, I want to thank all of you for your attention. Thanks very much.	最后，我想谢谢大家 谢谢你们的关注。非常感谢。
My name is Emiliano Salinas and I'm going to talk about the role we members of society play in the violent atmosphere this country is living in right now.	我名叫艾米拉诺•萨利纳斯 我想要谈谈 当这个国家四处弥漫着暴力气氛时 我们身为社会成员在此时 所应扮演的角色
I was born in 1976.	我出生于1976年
I grew up in a traditional Mexican family.	生在一个传统的墨西哥家庭
As a child, I had a pretty normal life: I would go to school, play with my friends and cousins.	我童年的生活十分普通： 我去上学，和朋友、表亲玩耍
But then my father became President of Mexico and my life changed.	但后来我父亲成为了墨西哥总统 我的生活就此改变了
What I'm about to say, at least some of what I'm about to say, will cause controversy.	我所要讲的内容 至少部分的内容 可能会引起极大的争议
Firstly, because I'm the one who's going to say it.	这首先是因为我是那个要讲话的人
And secondly, because what I'm going to say is true, and it will make a lot of people nervous because it's something we don't want to hear.	其次是因为我所说的都是事实 而事实总会使许多人胆战心惊 因为总有一些事实是人们不想听到的
But it's imperative that we listen because it's undeniable and definitive.	但是紧迫的是我们必须面对事实 因为事实不可磨灭
It will also make members of criminal organizations nervous for the same reasons.	这些事实同样会 令犯罪组织的成员感到紧张 也是基于相同的原因
I'm going to talk about the role we members of society play in this phenomenon, and about four different response levels we citizens have against violence.	我将谈谈 身为社会成员的我们在这些现象中 扮演何种角色， 在面对暴力时 我们的反应分为四个层次
I know many will find it difficult to separate the fact that I'm Carlos Salinas de Gortari's son from the fact that I'm a citizen concerned about the country's current situation.	我知道，大家很难把我这个 前总统卡洛斯•萨利纳斯•德戈塔的儿子 与关心时事的公民 相提并论
Don't worry.	没关系
It's not necessary for understanding the importance of what I'm going to say.	这与我所要谈到的内容 毫无关系
I think we have a problem in Mexico.	我认为，墨西哥正面临一个问题
We have a big problem.	一个大问题
I think there's consensus on this.	这是一个不争的事实
No one argues -- we all agree there's a problem.	没有人会反驳-- 我们都认为这里存在问题
What we don't agree on is what the problem actually is.	我们有分歧的地方是 问题究竟出在哪里
Is it the Zetas? The drug traffickers? The government?	是泽塔斯集团？贩毒组织?还是政府？
Corruption? Poverty? Or is it something else?	是腐败?贫困?还是其它方面？
I think none of these is the problem.	我认为这些都不是问题所在
I don't mean they don't deserve attention.	我不是说这些问题不值得关注
But we won't be able to take care of any of those things if we don't solve the real problem we have in Mexico first.	然而，如不首先解决墨西哥面临的真正问题 我们就无法 解决以上任何问题
The real problem we have is most of us Mexicans, we believe we are victims of our circumstances.	我们的问题首先在于 大多数墨西哥人认为我们自己 是社会现状的受害者
We are a country of victims.	我们是一个满是受害者的国家
Historically, we've always acted as victims of something or somebody.	在历史上，我们经常充当受害者的角色 受到某些事或某些人的残害
We were victims of the Spaniards.	我们曾受西班牙人的侵略
Then we were victims of the French.	曾受法国人侵略
Then we were victims of Don Porfirio.	曾是Don Porfirio的受害者
Then we were victims of the PRI.	曾是革命制度党的受害者
Even of Salinas.	还曾是萨利纳斯的受害者
And of El Peje.	和El Peje的受害者
And now of the Zetas and the traffickers and the criminals and the kidnappers ...	而现在是泽塔集团，贩毒组织，犯罪团体，绑架者的受害者
Hold on! Wait a minute!	停下来！等一下！
What if none of these things is the problem?	要是这些都不是问题所在呢？
The problem is not the things we feel victims of.	那些我们认为让自己沦为受害者的事情都不是问题所在
The problem is that we play the role of victims.	问题在于我们总在扮演受害者
We need to open our eyes and see that we are not victims.	我们必须睁开眼睛，看到我们并不是受害者
If only we stopped feeling like victims, if we stopped acting as victims, our country would change so much!	只有当我们不再以为自己是受害者 只有当我们不再扮演受害者 我们的国家就能得到彻头彻尾的改变！
I'm going to talk about how to go from a society that acts as a victim of circumstances to a responsible, involved society that takes the future of its country in its own hands.	我所要讲的便是一个社会 如何从各种现象的受害者 转变为一个富有责任感，民众参与度高的社会 这样的社会才能够实实在在地把握国家的未来
I'm going to talk about four different levels of civil response against violence, from weakest to strongest.	我将从四个层面谈一谈人们对暴力的反应 程度由弱到强 第一层反应 也就是人们对暴力的程度
The first level, the weakest level of civil response against violence, is denial and apathy.	最弱的反应 就是闭口不提，无动于衷
Today, much of Mexican society is in denial of the situation we're going through.	在今天的墨西哥社会，大多数人 都在回避现实
We want to go on with our daily life even though we are not living under normal circumstances.	尽管生活陷入了非常的处境 但是大家都想正常地过日子
Daily life in our country is, to say the least, under extraordinary, exceptional circumstances.	我们国家的生活，往好里说， 面临着最极端、 翻天覆地的现状
It's like someone who has a serious illness and pretends it's the flu and it will just go away.	这就像是一个人得了重病 却假装自己得的是感冒 过一会儿就好了
We want to pretend that Mexico has the flu.	我们假装墨西哥患的是感冒
But it doesn't.	但事实并非如此
Mexico has cancer.	墨西哥患的是癌症
And if we don't do something about it, the cancer will end up killing it.	如果我们不采取行动医治 国家便会病入膏肓
We need to move Mexican society from denial and apathy to the next level of citizen response, which is, effectively, recognition.	我们必须将墨西哥社会 对现状的无动于衷 转变为国民对现状的第二层反应 即，有效地认清现状
And that recognition will sow fear -- recognizing the seriousness of the situation.	认清事实会产生恐惧 认清事实的严重性
But, fear is better than apathy because fear makes us do something.	然而恐惧总比无动于衷强 恐惧让我们不得不采取行动
Many people in Mexico are afraid today.	现在，墨西哥有许多人 都感到恐惧
We're very afraid.	我们都非常害怕
And we're acting out of that fear.	我们在恐惧中作出行动
And let me tell you what the problem is with acting out of fear -- and this is the second level of civil response: fear.	我想谈谈在恐惧中行动 会产生什么问题-- 这就是民众对现状反应的第二个层次： 恐惧
Let's think about Mexican streets: they're unsafe because of violence, so people stay at home.	在恐惧中行动的问题在于 想象一下，墨西哥的街道因为暴力而变得不安全 于是人们就躲在家里
Does that make streets more or less safe?	这样能让街道变得更安全还是更危险？
Less safe!	当然更危险！
So streets become more desolate and unsafe, so we stay home more -- which makes streets even more desolate and unsafe, and we stay home even more.	这样街道就会变得更荒凉，更危险 结果我们就更不愿出门-- 使街道进一步变得更加荒凉，更加危险 于是我们更不敢出门了
This vicious circle ends up with the whole population stuck inside their houses, scared to death -- even more afraid than when we were out on the streets.	全体国民都陷入了这个恶性循环 不敢出门，贪生怕死 在家里比在大街上还要担惊受怕
We need to confront this fear.	我们必须战胜恐惧
We need to move Mexican society, the members of society who are at this level, to the next level, which is action.	我们必须把墨西哥社会 全体社会成员推向第三个层面 即，采取实际行动
We need to face our fears and take back our streets, our cities, our neighborhoods.	我们必须战胜自己的恐惧，收回失去了的街道 城市与街区
For many people, acting involves courage.	对于许多人而言，行动中总伴随着愤怒
We go from fear to courage.	我们的恐惧变成了愤怒
They say, "I can't take it anymore.	他们说："我忍无可忍了。
Let's do something about it."	我们要马上采取行动。"
Recently -- this is a sensitive figure -- 35 public lynchings have been recorded so far in 2010 in Mexico.	最近-- 有组很敏感的数据-- 据记录，2010年以来 墨西哥发生了 35起当众使用私刑的案件
Usually it's one or two a year.	而通常情况下，这种案件每年仅有一两起
Now we're experiencing one every week.	现在，几乎每周都会发生一起
This shows that society is desperate and it's taking the law into its own hands.	这说明这个社会已经陷入绝望 人们自己成为了执法者
Unfortunately, violent action -- though action is better than no action -- but taking part in it only disguises violence.	可惜，尽管采取行动 胜过无动于衷 但是以暴制暴的行动 只不过是让暴力看上去冠冕堂皇而已
If I'm violent with you and you respond with violence, you become part of the violence and you just disguise my violence.	如果我对你施暴 你以暴力回击 你也成为了施暴的一份子 你不过是让我的暴力看起来更合理了
So civil action is vital, but it's also vital to take people who are at the level of courage and violent action to the next level, which is non-violent action.	民众采取行动 固然重要 当我们仍然有必要 让所有处于恐惧 与愤怒的民众 走向下一个层面 即，非暴力行动
It's pacific, coordinated civil action, which doesn't mean passive action.	这样的行动是和平的，相互合作的 但决不是被动的
It means it's determined and effective, but not violent.	它是坚决的，有效的 非暴力的
There are examples of this kind of action in Mexico.	在墨西哥，这样的例子出现过
Two years ago, in Galena City, Chihuahua, a member of the community was kidnapped, Eric Le Barón.	两年前，在奇瓦瓦州的加莱阿纳市 当地的一位居民被绑架了 他叫艾里克
His brothers, Benjamín and Julián, got together with the rest of the community to think of the best course of action: to pay the ransom, to take up arms and go after the kidnappers or to ask the government for help.	他的兄弟本杰明和朱利安 集结了当地所有居民 共同商讨最佳解决措施： 交赎金 抄上家伙找绑匪算账 还是找政府帮忙
In the end, Benjamín and Julián decided the best thing they could do was to organize the community and act together.	最后，本杰明和朱利安决定 采取最好的办法 就是组织社区中的所有人共同行动
So what did they do?	他们做了什么？
They mobilized the whole community of Le Barón to go to Chihuahua, where they organized a sit-in in the central park of the city.	他们动员了Le Barón社区中所有人 让这些人 集体去到奇瓦瓦市 他们就在市中央公园组织了一场大规模静坐
They sent a message to the kidnappers: "If you want your ransom come and get it.	他们给绑匪发了一条信息： "如果你们要赎金，就来拿吧；
We'll be waiting for you right here."	我们就在这里等着。"
They stayed there.	他们一直等在那里
Seven days later, Eric was set free and was able to return home.	七天之后，艾里克被释放了 他回到了家
This is an example of what an organized society can do, a society that acts.	这个例子证明了一个有组织的社会所拥有的力量 一个该出手时就出手的社会
Of course, criminals can respond.	当然，犯罪分子也会做出回应
And in this case, they did.	这次，他们也做出了回应
On July 7th, 2009, Benjamín Le Barón was murdered.	2009年7月 本杰明被谋杀了
But Julián Le Barón keeps working and he has been mobilizing communities in Chihuahua for over a year.	但朱利安没有放弃 一整年，他都在动员各社区 在奇瓦瓦市进行各种运动
And for over a year he has known that a price has been put on his head.	这一整年里，有人悬赏要他的项上人头
But he keeps fighting.	而他的斗争没有停息
He keeps organizing.	继续组织运动
He keeps mobilizing.	继续做动员
These heroic acts are present all over the country.	这个国家里到处都不乏英雄事迹
With a thousand Juliáns working together, Mexico would be a very different country.	如果千千万万的朱利安团结在一起 墨西哥今天会是个完全不同的国家
And they're out there!	而这些英雄就在那里！
They just have to raise their hands.	他们只是需要把手举起来
I was born in Mexico, I grew up in Mexico and along the way, I learned to love Mexico.	我生在墨西哥，长在墨西哥 在成长过程中，我学会了热爱墨西哥
I think anyone who has stepped foot on this land -- not to mention all Mexican people -- will agree that it's not difficult to love Mexico.	我相信任何一个踏足这片土地的人 --不仅是所有墨西哥人-- 都会情不自禁地爱上这个国家 对此，没有人会有异议
I've traveled a lot and nowhere else have I found the passion Mexicans have.	我去过很多地方 而那些地方的人都没有墨西哥人的热情
That devotion we feel for the national football team.	我们在支持 国家足球队时的热情
That devotion we show in helping victims of disasters, such as the earthquake in 1985 or this year's floods.	我们在支援 受灾人民时表现出的热情 比如1985年的大地震 和今年发生的大洪水
The passion with which we've been singing the national anthem since we were kids.	从儿时起我们唱国歌时 就保含热情
When we thought Masiosare was the strange enemy, and we sang, with a childlike heart, "a soldier in each son."	我们以为Masiosare 是外敌的意思 我们用一颗儿童的心唱着 "每个子民心中都有一个战士"
I think the biggest insult, the worst way you can offend a Mexican is to insult their mother.	我认为，侮辱一个墨西哥人 最恶劣的方式 就是侮辱他的母亲
A mother is the most sacred thing in life.	母亲在人一生中出在最神圣地位
Mexico is our mother and today she cries out for her children.	墨西哥就是我们的母亲，而现在她在召唤她的子民
We are going through the darkest moment in our recent history.	我们正面临着近期历史上 最为黑暗的时刻
Our mother, Mexico, is being violated before our very eyes.	我们的母亲墨西哥就在我们眼前遭人凌辱
What are we going to do?	我们该怎么办？
Masiosare, the strange enemy, is here.	Masiosare，外敌已经来了
Where is the soldier in each son?	那么每个子民心中的战士在哪里？
Mahatma Gandhi, one of the greatest civil fighters of all time, said, "Be the change you wish to see in the world."	圣雄甘地 历史上最伟大的人民权力运动英雄曾说： "欲变世界，先变其身"
Today in Mexico we're asking for Gandhis.	现在，我们呼唤甘地
We need Ghandis.	我们需要甘地
We need men and women who love Mexico and who are willing to take action.	我们需要热爱墨西哥的英雄儿女们 揭竿而起
This is a call for every true Mexican to join this initiative.	这是在召唤每一位真正的墨西哥人 加入这场斗争
This is a call so that every single thing we love about Mexico -- the festivals, the markets, the restaurants, the cantinas, the tequila, the mariachis, the serenades, the posadas, El Grito, the Day of the Dead, San Miguel, the joy, the passion for life, the fight and everything it means to be Mexican -- doesn't disappear from this world.	这在放声号召 只有这样，我们所热爱的墨西哥的一切 -各种节日，市场， 餐馆，饭店， 龙舌兰酒，流浪艺人，小夜曲 旅馆，EL Grito，死者日 圣米格尔护城，喜悦，热情 斗争，以及让我们成为墨西哥人的一切事物 才不会从世界上消失
We're facing a very powerful opponent.	我们面对的是极其强大的敌人
But we are many more.	但我们的力量更加强大
They can take a man's life.	他们可以杀死一个人
Anyone can kill me, or you, or you.	谁都可以杀我 杀你，或者你
But no one can kill the spirit of true Mexicans.	但是，谁也杀不死 墨西哥人真正的精神
The battle is won, but we still have to fight it.	我们的斗争是必胜的 但我们必须进行战斗
2000 years ago, the Roman poet Juvenal said something that today echoes in the heart of every true Mexican.	两千年前，古罗马诗人尤维纳利斯 所说的一些话 今天在每一个真正墨西哥人的心里余音尤在
He said, "Count it the greatest sin to prefer life to honor, and for the sake of living to lose what makes life worth living."	他说："为荣誉而蔑视生命 是万恶之首 而对于生命而言 最大的罪恶莫过于让生命失去存在的意义。"
Thank you.	非常感谢
	（众人鼓掌）
Good morning!	早上好！
Are you awake?	你们醒了么？
They took my name tag, but I wanted to ask you, did anyone here write their name on the tag in Arabic?	他们刚拿走了我的胸卡，不过我想问问你们 胸卡上的名字， 有没有人是用阿拉伯语写的？
Anyone! No one? All right, no problem.	有么？没有？恩，很好，没问题。
Once upon a time, not long ago, I was sitting in a restaurant with my friend, ordering food.	就在不久之前， 我和朋友坐在餐厅里，正要点餐。
So I looked at the waiter and said, "Do you have a menu ?"	我看着服务员，对他说， "有菜单么？" （用阿拉伯语）
He looked at me strangely, thinking that he misheard.	他奇怪地盯着我看，以为他听错了。
He said, "Sorry? ."	他说："Sorry？"
I said, "The menu , please."	我又说："请给我菜单好么？" （用阿拉伯语）
He replied, "Don't you know what they call it?"	他回答："你难道不知道叫法么？"
"I do."	"我知道。"
He said, "No! It's called "menu" , or "menu" ."	他说，"应该叫Menu，或者Menu" （前者英文发音，后者是法文发音）
Is the French pronunciation correct?	我的法语发音对么？
"Come, come, take care of this one!" said the waiter.	"过来，过来，这桌交给你了" 那个服务员说。
He was disgusted when talking to me, as if he was saying to himself, "If this was the last girl on Earth, I wouldn't look at her!"	他明显不屑于和我说话， 然后他自言自语道， "就算世界上只有这一个女人， 我都不会正眼看她一眼。"
What's the meaning of saying "menu" in Arabic?	用阿拉伯语说"菜单"意味着什么？
Two words made a Lebanese young man judge a girl as being backward and ignorant.	这两个字让黎巴嫩的青年男子认为，说这话的女人，又封建 又无知。
How could she speak that way?	她怎么说得出这种话？
At that moment, I started thinking.	从那一刻起，我开始思考这件事。
It made me mad.	这件事让我很生气，
It definitely hurts!	而且非常伤人。
I'm denied the right to speak my own language in my own country?	我在自己国家，说自己语言的权利被否定了？
Where could this happen?	还有什么地方会发生这种事？
How did we get here?	我们怎么会走到这一步的？
Well, while we are here, there are many people like me, who would reach a stage in their lives, where they involuntarily give up everything that has happened to them in the past, just so they can say that they're modern and civilized.	不过，今天这个场合， 很多人和我一样， 到达了人生中的那个阶段： 心不甘情不愿的，放弃过去的一切， 到达了人生中的那个阶段： 心不甘情不愿的，放弃过去的一切， 只有这样他们才觉得自己是现代人、文化人。 只有这样他们才觉得自己是现代人、文化人。
Should I forget all my culture, thoughts, intellect and all my memories?	那我是不是也该把我自己的文化、思想、 智慧和记忆全部都忘掉？
Childhood stories might be the best memories we have of the war!	童年可能是战争中我们最美好的回忆了！
Should I forget everything I learned in Arabic, just to conform?	我是不是该忘掉阿拉伯语，仅仅是随大流而已？
To be one of them?	变成他们中的一员？
Where's the logic in that?	逻辑何在？
Despite all that, I tried to understand him.	撇开这些不谈， 我依然试图去理解那个人。
I didn't want to judge him with the same cruelty that he judged me.	我不想用他那种残忍的标准， 反过来去评判他。
The Arabic language doesn't satisfy today's needs.	阿拉伯语确实满足不了今天的需要。
It's not a language for science, research, a language we're used to in universities, a language we use in the workplace, a language we rely on if we were to perform an advanced research project, and it definitely isn't a language we use at the airport.	不是科学用的语言， 不是研究用语， 不是大学里用的语言， 不是工作场合的语言， 不是我们进行尖端研究时的用语， 而且绝对不是机场用语。
If we did so, they'd strip us of our clothes.	如果我们在机场这么说， 他们肯定当场要搜身了。
Where can I use it, then? We could all ask this question!	那我什么时候才能用到它呢？ 这个问题很值得深思！
So, you want us to use Arabic. Where are we to do so?	你告诉我，说阿拉伯语的场合， 哪里去找？
This is one reality.	这只是其中之一。
But we have another more important reality that we ought to think about.	还有一个更重要的现实需要我们考虑。
Arabic is the mother tongue.	阿拉伯语是我们的母语。
Research says that mastery of other languages demands mastery of the mother tongue.	研究表明，要想掌握其他语言， 需要先掌握自己的母语。
Mastery of the mother tongue is a prerequisite for creative expression in other languages.	掌握母语，是掌握其他语言的前提。
How?	此话怎讲？
Gibran Khalil Gibran, when he first started writing, he used Arabic.	纪伯伦·哈利勒·纪伯伦， （黎巴嫩诗人，旧译 哈里利·吉布兰） 他最初写作时用的是阿拉伯语。
All his ideas, imagination and philosophy were inspired by this little boy in the village where he grew up, smelling a specific smell, hearing a specific voice, and thinking a specific thought.	他所有的灵感，想象力和哲学观 都来源于他小时候的乡村成长经历， 来源于故乡的气味， 那特别的声音， 还有独特的想法。
So, when he started writing in English, he had enough baggage.	所以当他开始用英文写作时， 肚子里已经有足够的墨水了。
Even when he wrote in English, when you read his writings in English, you smell the same smell, sense the same feeling.	即便之后他用英文写作， 当你读他的英文作品时， 你能闻到一样的气味， 体味到同样的感觉。
You can imagine that that's him writing in English, the same boy who came from the mountain. From a village on Mount Lebanon.	你可以想象出用英文写作的他， 依然是那个从黎巴嫩山村里出来的小男孩。
So, this is an example no one can argue with.	这是个无可争辩的例子。
Second, it's often said that if you want to kill a nation, the only way to kill a nation, is to kill its language.	其次，人们经常说，如果要消灭一个民族， 唯一的办法 是消灭它的语言，
This is a reality that developed societies are aware of.	这是发达国家都认识到的事实。
The Germans, French, Japanese and Chinese, all these nations are aware of this.	德国、法国、日本、中国， 这些国家都意识到了这一点。
That's why they legislate to protect their language.	这也是为什么他们要立法保护本国语言
